It occurred to me today, that perhaps I do have something to apologize for.

To be fair, I really can’t be sure what you’re upset about.  The below is just my own self-evaluation.  You have been clear as to what you’re upset about, but your stated reason doesn’t make sense to me, because I’m wholly unconvinced that you would feel much different than I do, if Duncan had bit you in the face.  If you disagree, please consider that you may not actually understand how I’ve been feeling.

I believe therapy is a wise request, for all our sakes, but I wish you would make it easier to understand what is actually bothering you.  Do you think a therapist would recommend anything different?  This has never changed since you were a child.  The last time you stopped talking to us, you made it clear, in no uncertain terms, that you would never change this behavior.  There’s nothing more I can do about it, except to ask that, in addition, you consider doing what your Mom and I both do when you go underground:  wonder and pray about you.  Please wonder and pray about us in these moments.  Think about us, and never forget us.  Inherit from us this habit, to search everything related to our disagreements, every moment, every word, everything about us, and try to find something, anything, worth making amends over, worth speaking the truth about your part, worth apologizing for.

I thought we were closer than how you have described our relationship recently.  I think the world of you, and it hurts me more than I can say when we are at odds.

You felt that you had the right to confront me that night, and you did.  I believed that your analysis of the situation was incomplete at best, as I still do.  It hurt me that you blamed me, and I felt that gave me the right to continue the confrontation, and it did.

But there were multiple thoughts going through my mind in that moment, and the one I chose to bring to the surface was the one about how you offended me.  One of my initial thoughts was how proud I was that you had become this person who was willing to speak her mind in a confrontation.  I also believed that if I said that out loud in that moment, you might disrespect the comment.  But I may have underestimated how difficult it was for you to say what you did.  I could’ve just stated my disagreement, and set my personal offense to the side, and maybe, just maybe, the rest of the conversation would’ve gone better.

Please understand that I was very hurt in that moment.  Not by you, by Duncan.  When we adopted Duncan, there was absolutely no sign of that level of aggression.  What he did that night was incredibly traumatizing for me.  I had just been bitten in the face, and I can’t deny the possibility that I was looking for a fight.  Sometimes we misdirect our feelings.  It has taken me days to get through this, and I’m still not.

I needed to lean on my family during that moment, and in spite of how much I had tried to prepare myself for that conversation, what you said really took me off guard.  I can always do better, and I’m always stronger in hindsight.  I expressed my hurt in the best way I could think of in that moment, which was calmly and clearly, face-to-face, and in well thought-out letters.

Hindsight and reflection help me to see the situation from your perspective.  But I don’t know much I could’ve been expected to do differently, considering my state of mind at the time.  In hindsight, I question my own judgement in driving myself to the ER.  I wasn’t bleeding to death, but I was far more upset than I was consciously willing to admit, and I was grappling with those emotions the following night as well.

My only true regret is not side-barring this conversation sooner.  This started as a family conversation, but in hindsight, I’m not sure how much longer it should’ve actually remained a family conversation.  In that, I wish I had been wiser.  I thought taking a breath or two could clear my head enough to express myself reasonably, and in hindsight, without rereading everything I wrote, just going off of my memory, I’m not sure much of what I said was incorrect.  But some of that should have only been said between the three of us.  My head wasn’t clear enough to see that in the moment, and for that, I apologize.