These days, if I were to ask you if you are part of this family, if you want to be part of this family, you probably wouldn’t give me an answer.  The last time you spoke of family ties, it was to denounce me as your father because I was insisting on speaking to you.  And every time I have given you the opportunity to revise your words, you have turned me down.

If you’re part of Girl Scouts, you’re a part of a team.  You listen to your leaders, you do your part, and you take responsibility for your actions.  You don’t pledge your allegiance to the team one day, and then denounce them when you’re not happy.  You yourself claim to be a Girl Scout.  You show the world that you’re proud of the Girl Scouts, you do your part, and you make everyone proud.  

But in family, you refuse to express any desire to be a part of it, you refuse to do your part without being forced to, without fights and hurt feelings. And you don’t take responsibility when you hurt others.

Are you proud to be part of this family?  I trust you, and I believe that you want to be here, where you already are, as part of this family.  I have faith in you, I can prove that to you, and I have continued to demonstrate trust in you as my daughter, every day.  But after our last conversation about family, I need some reassurances from your mouth, some true words, from your heart, before we move forward, at all.  You don’t tell your Girl Scout troop that you’ve never considered yourself to be a part of their team, and then ask them for their financial records.  If you want to be part of this team, of this family, of this community, I need to hear it from you, and I need to have your firm commitment, a lifelong commitment, just as you have my commitment to you.  If you need to hear it from me too, just let me know, and I will tell you, from the bottom of my heart, in all sincerity and respect.  But I already gave you that commitment, with my words and my actions, years ago, and I have never done or said anything to contradict, break, or disrespect it.