Tonight, after Rachael implied that I was barely closer to her than a stranger, something she backtracked on later, I pointed out that it wasn’t I who put myself there, but her.  She nodded as if I had stated the obvious, so I began to explore why she might have kept me at arms length.  I asked her if she thought that I was abusive to her.  She implied that I may be psychologically abusive.  I asked her in what way.  She rolled her eyes and wouldn’t say.  I asked if she thought this should be obvious to me as well.  She said that it was obvious to everyone on the outside.  I asked her why no one would help me see it.  She said it was because they’re too busy laughing at me.

Is this how she feels others view her  when they see she is in need of help?  Does she think we laugh at her?

This was a small excerpt of a larger conversation I was having with her about obedience.  It was a moment of sincerity that came after she couldn’t say that I was a good father.  She admitted that I wasn’t shitty, but couldn’t offer anything more.  When she was done, I thanked her for opening up to me.  I told her that it meant a lot to me.  And for several reasons, it did.  For one, it gives me a glimpse of how my daughter views the world around her.  I’m sure that she hasn’t told me the worst of her opinions, so this glimpse implied quite a dark view of her family that I’m not sure was quite this clear before.

One time, when I was trying to talk to Rachael, she rolled her eyes and told me that this is where Gavin got it from.  By this, I believe she meant how Gavin sometimes tries to force a conversation with her.  And I can feel that when I speak to her, when I’m confronting her about something.  She doesn’t want to discuss chores, or her rudeness or disrespect.  She behaves as if she doesn’t care about anyone’s feelings.  I wonder, when she accuses me of possible psychological abuse, if she’s talking about how I sometimes want to speak to her about points of tension between us, and she never does?

One time Rachael walked into the house and spoke to me very rudely.  I confronted her about it, and instead of being honest with me and herself, she responded with even greater rudeness.  This culminated in her yelling in my face that she hated me.  I asked her if she loved me at all, and she screamed that she did not,
then denied saying it.  She screamed at me that I was a terrible father, but that time, as in this one, she could offer no substance to back it up.  Her accusations of psychological abuse are almost like cries of her own self-denial.  Like a teapot of self-deception, the truth eventually comes out with a scream. 

Before we were done, I asked her how she was going to keep from repeating my mistakes, and that of her mom’s.  I asked her how she planned to build a family with an imperfect spouse, and imperfect children, if she couldn’t get along with the imperfect people in this house?  After a few moments of thought, she said, simply, that she had a plan.  I asked her if it involved counseling.  She said, adamantly, that it did not.