You think I always try to provoke you, and there is some truth to that.  What choice do I have.  It’s the only tool that you’ve left me to try and reach you sometimes, and the only one you can’t toke away.  I tried requesting and demanding that you speak to me, and never got me anywhere (this is barely an exaggeration, if at all). I’ve tried giving you space, but you just wait until the emotions fade, and then you forget the matter entirely.  If I try to bring anything back up, the walls go straight back up.  I’ve tried disciplining you, but that just made us both sad, and still got us nowhere.  I’ve tried guessing, but you rarely work with me.  Many times I feel like my only remaining tool to get myself on the inside of your walls, is provocation.  I’m not trying to hurt you, I’m trying to get you to talk to your Dad.  I placed you right in the center of my heart from the day I met you.  Your greatest dream as a little girl, was to be surrounded by a loving family.  You talked about it all the time.  It was my greatest dream too, and still is.  I’ve tried and failed many times, to teach you that being true Daughter is not enough.  You must also hold Mommu as a true Mother, Gavin as a true Brother, and me as a true Father.  And when it comes to me, your Father, that means that you never let anger, grudges, bitterness, sadness... you must never let anything shut you off from me.  It means that you must never wound us, and if you do, you must do your very best to heal us.  And although I feel that my own efforts to teach you these things have been poor, I nevertheless watch you learning these lessons every day.  I see you walk straighter, head up higher, more and more confidence each and every day.  You have learned, and continue to learn, what it means to be a true Daughter, loved and highly respected.  But with regard to sharing your feelings with those closest to you, to explaining the behavior that often wounds your loved ones, I don’t think you’re doing your best.  We all wound each other, you are no better nor worse.  As we grow, we learn to cherish each other with every fiber of our being, and a big part of that comes when we learn to talk to our loved ones, make our feelings transparent, make ourself known, and in doing so, draw ourself close.  I need this.  You need this.  We all need it from each other.  I also watch you learning this every day, and I was proud of your courage last night.  I also know that as a younger parent, I was not good at showing you the respect you deserved.  I yelled at you and frightened you into obedience.  This is a common mistake with young parents, who are still children themselves in a sense.  Let’s both continue to try harder and do better.