Some thoughts for our upcoming check-in.

Last week, aside from getting the website project board organized, lining Tony out with some priority work, and organizing further efforts to resolve any broken links, I've also been digging deeper into the mechanics of AI.  I want to be sure that we can make informed decisions if/when we decide to tie into any API's, as well as have a decent understanding of what we're dealing with when it comes to training and troubleshooting.  

I've left my daily stand-ups somewhat ambiguous, and I will continue to do so when it seems right, unless you object.  I don't think that the entire team needs to know what I'm looking into every day.  That information is, of course, always transparent to leadership.  I think the regular check-in is perfect for that.

I'd like to have a brainstorm session soon, with you and anyone that we feel could bring some ideas to the table.  Perhaps there are some board members or some intellectuals in our close network, who would also be worth inviting to a meeting or two?  Though I am excited about the ideas I've proposed, I'm not overly bullish on any of them, except for hardening our website, and the debate/discussion module.  We should consider taking at least 30 minutes each week to bang our heads together, until we come up with some ideas that inspire us all.  The simple act of creating this weekly routine is likely to get our gears turning in the background throughout the week.  I'd like to create a Slack channel to collect group thoughts into.

This week, in addition to the continued efforts on our website, I'd like to begin developing the bare bones for the debate/discussion module MVP.  I suggest this tentatively, bearing in mind that I have no idea whether you even like the project.  That said, I do think it will prove to be a powerful and versatile tool that we can leverage in many contexts.

Tony let me know that his contract will be ending after October.  I'd like to understand what perspective I should maintain in the short-to-medium term.  In order to do my best work as CTO, I feel an obligation to keep my eye on long-term vision and what will be needed for upcoming challenges, and that means research and creativity.  However, if we are downsizing my engineering team to just me, I will need to keep my head in the code and the analytical much, perhaps most of the time.  That's going to be challenging, particularly if we’re working on any illustration or video production projects.  I enjoy coding, and I'm capable of juggling, but it will be difficult to maintain a broader perspective if most of my time is focussed on ground-level detail.  If juggling is what you need, I understand, and you'll have my best.

Does the card that you issued to me represent a budget for the tech department?  Some initial thoughts on that subject:
  - I'd like to fire up a couple of subscriptions to media sources that stay on the leading edge of tech, perhaps Fast Company and MIT, as well as an educational library or two.
  - I'd like to purchase an ePaper notebook, around $400.  It's not paramount, but would be helpful.
  - Thoughts on a Chat GPT Team plan?  Slightly more expensive per user, potentially more benefits, including advanced data analysis and collaborative chat spaces.
  - I know you haven't been keen on hiring anyone new lately, but I should at least make you aware of this while it's relevant:  I have a trusted friend who is closing his business and letting go of a developer from the Philipines that he's been working with for years.  His monthly rate for fulltime employment is around 2k.  If that's of interest, I'll request his resume and setup an interview to make sure he's a good fit.  Someone like this would be handy for the kind of maintenance and optimization work that Tony is doing, so that I can stay focussed on innovation.

I look forward to our check-in.  Have a good evening. 🍺