Do me a favor, and don’t put any substantial funds into a savings account.  The minimum balance to keep it free is fine.  It’s a decent place to organize some emergency backup funds, but beyond that, savings accounts have no value as a place to save your money.  The bank is just going to take your money, and do with it what you should be doing, and then give you a few pennies in return for the privilege. And what they’re going to do is invest your money so that it can make more money for themselves.  

But now investment is more accessible to everyone than it has ever been.  Stock trading is risky if you do it for a day, a week, or maybe even a month.  But by the time you’ve left your money in a diversified set of investments for a couple of months, it’s as guaranteed as anything in this country, that your money will have sat there and grown on its own.  You should start your investing with ETFs, which are already diversified, and investment apps already give you good suggestions in this regard.

So find an investment app with a good reputation and rating, and put your vacation, retirement, and even your emergency money there until you need it.  There are monthly fees involved, but there is an app called Acorn that only charges $1 per month, and handles all of the investment choices for you, and they will put your money in some solid ETFs.  With just a little bit of significant savings, you’ll easily make that dollar back, and more.

I’m thankful to all my new friends at Lincoln Network, who advanced my thinking on this subject over the last couple of years.  My wife and I will always keep a certain amount of cash available for quick spending needs (stock market sales, while easy, will always take two business days to complete, so bear that in mind).  But our savings account balance is slowly shrinking as we become more and more convinced that while money sits around waiting to one day fulfill our dreams or save us from our greatest fears, it should be put to work until the day it’s needed.