C. S. Peirce was perhaps the first philosopher to develop a systematic non-truth-theoretic account of knowledge expressly for the purpose of defining (or clarifying) the notion of truth. He argued eloquently against understanding knowledge in terms of truth, and in this way he opened the possibility of defining truth epistemically. More exactly, he denied that proper inquiry aims at true belief in any but a trivial way. And he proposed the alternative view that inquiry aims at the fixation of belief.,5 This demotion of the aim of true belief to a trivial status and its replacement with the aim of fixation enabled Peirce to define epistemic notions without employing the notion of truth. A proper method - one that fulfills the aim of inquiry - is, according to Peirce, a belief-fixing method.' With this alternative to a truth-theoretic definition of proper method in hand, Peirce was able to define truth in epistemic terms - in terms of proper method - without fear of circularity. The motivation for such a definition was supplied by Peirce's pragmatist (or "pragmaticist," as Peirce preferred) theory of meaning. 

Peirce argued against the idea that inquiry aims at true belief, and in favor of the alternative aim of the fixation of belief, in his groundbreaking essay, "The Fixation of Belief," section IV: 

	The irritation of doubt is the only immediate motive for the struggle to attain belief.... With the doubt, therefore, the struggle begins, and with the cessation of doubt it ends. Flence, the sole object of inquiry is the settlement of opinion. We may fancy that this is not enough for us, and that we seek, not merely an opinion, but a true opinion. But put this fancy to the test, and it proves groundless; for as soon as a firm belief is reached we are entirely satisfied, whether the belief be true or false. And it is clear that nothing out of the sphere of our knowledge can he our object, for nothing which does not affect the mind can be the motive for a mental effort. The most that can be maintained is, that we seek for a belief that we think to be true. But we think each one of our beliefs to be true, and, indeed, it is mere tautology to say so. (Peirce 1992 pp. 114-15)

