One time a friend, who was frustrated with my political views and failing to convince me of their position, got so frustrated and angry with me, that they decided to make up the most offensive lies about me and say them to may face.  It may also be true that they believed what they were saying, I don't know.  What I do know is that what they were saying was a lie, and since they hadn't spent any quality time with me over 30 years, it was obvious that they didn't actually care what the truth was.  Nevertheless, their intent was to wound me deeply.  And they succeeded.  I ask myself if it would've hurt less if the lie were actually true.  I don't know.  Since it was said without respect for the truth, I know that I can't solve this problem with the truth, and so it will forever be irresolvable, an disgusting opinion in a mind that believes whatever it wants to.  The only thing I could actual do to change this opinion that is trapped in a mind that I once respected, would be to change my political views.  This was the intention, the strategy.  Failing to even attempt reason, leaning far too hard on emotion, this once-friend of lost his patience, and resorted to instead to emotionally-charged deception.  He painted me in the poorest possible light he could, bringing up memories of me from more than three decades ago, when I was young and terribly foolish.  He attempted to tie this grotesque narrative to my polical views.  It was a rare moment to witness someone attempting to mind f--- me in real time.  When a friend starts treating you like an enemy, 