When I was a teenager, I had a friend who was very difficult to be friends with.  He was a genuine jerk, always combative, didn’t have anything nice to say about anyone, and always laughed at criticism.  He never crossed any big ethical lines, so I didn’t see him as a bad person, just someone who didn’t know how to behave in a social atmosphere.  Everyone that I knew pretty much hated him.  I don’t know why he hung out with us, except that maybe no one else would put up with him.

The kids in our friend group despised him, and they were always rude to him.  They didn’t understand why I was nice to him.  I think my behavior made them feel guilty, but instead of following my lead, they did all kinds of things to try and pressure me to treat him like they treated him.  

One night at the park, they pulled me aside to tell me about a cruel prank they wanted me to pull on him.  I knew it was a test—by them, or maybe by God.  Wanting their friendship but hating the plan, I pretended to agree while searching for another way. When the moment came, they stepped aside and waited for me to act.  I called out the kids name.  He sat on a swing, watching.  But instead of doing the prank, I began reciting a journal entry I’d written.

“I love the world, because the world is either fair, or it’s testing you.  And even when it’s testing you, it’s fair, because the test is designed to make you stronger…”

I stood there rattling off this nonsense.  It wasn’t a completely coherent, correct, or even complete idea, but it so related to the present experience, and I found comfort it the words.  My friend who sat before me looked at me like I was an idiot, and quickly began to scoff at me.  I sensed the group around me, throwing their hands up in frustration.  My friend had no idea what I was doing, but the group knew that I had refused their test, and risked their friendship.  They all walked off, including the unwitting friend.

A few months later, as I prepared to move away, a totally different friend came to say goodbye.  When I answered the door, I was surprised to see the group’s former leader standing silently behind him. I greeted them both, and spoke with my friend for a few minutes, while this kid remained silent.  My friend shook my hand before leaving, but when I reached my hand out to the leader, he pulled me into a hug—something he’d never done before, to me or anyone that I knew of.  It just wasn’t his typical way, and for all I knew, he still hated me for that night, which was the last time I’d seen him.  So I was really surprised by it. He said nothing, just nodded, and walked away.

He had no reason to hug me, that I was aware of, except for my actions that night.

I was reminded of this story today, after going through some very difficult conversations with some friends recently.  They spent hours trying to convince me to hate Donald Trump and Charlie Kirk.  They hammered me and pelted me with all kinds of emotional arguments, and tried to make me feel terrible for my opinions.  To them, these guys are evil villains.  And I believe they thought that, because of our history, they might persuade me.  I think they believed that I had just stumbled into the wilderness, gotten lost and dirty, and didn’t know my way back.  What they didn’t understand, is that I’m still that same boy.  I won’t call someone a villain unless I see it with my own eyes.  I won’t be persuaded by hearsay, exaggeration, or anecdote.

I was the same way with a recent employer.  Several of my friends told me that he was a jerk, and I should do what they did, stand up to him, and quit.  Instead, I decided to judge him by my own experience.  Turns out, he was indeed a jerk.  But like so many jerks I’ve known in my life, he wasn’t a villain.  In fact, he had great strengths, and through his prickly leadership, the whole team experienced a lot of success, even if some less tolerant colleagues quit along the way.