A few days ago, Ashton, one of the neighbor kids, had to move away.  He was a friend of Gavin’s.  We rarely spoke, but when we did, I was kind, I joked with him.

One day, Gavin was playing hide and seek with Ashton and Quez another friend.  The boundaries were basically anywhere in the back yard area.  I was sitting on the back porch, working, but was aware of the activity in my peripherals.  No one had even considered whether that included the porch, so when it was Ashton’s turn to seek, Gavin hid on the porch.  I just kept working.  Ashton looked around for a while.  He walked by me once and looked me in the eye.  I think he was seeking an answer, perhaps to the question: can they hide on the porch.  My facial expression revealed nothing.  He looked a bit longer, then finally found them on the porch.  Ashton said that he didn’t think that they could hide on the porch.  Gavin scoffed at him, a gesture that felt to me a bit like implying that this assumption reflected poorly on Ashton’s intelligence.  I waited to see if my son would provide any degree of good sportsmanship, as they continued to talk.  I finally intervened, something that I rarely do when my kids are playing.  I lifted my head from my computer and said, “Ashton assumed that the porch was off limits, and yet he still found you.  That’s pretty badass, in my book.”  Gavin looked at Ashton, paused, then smiled.  They didn’t say another word.

When Ashton left, he made a point to come to me, one on one, and tell me the news, and to tell me goodbye.