A well-balanced life is a successful contract between your past, present, and future selves.

Some of us put work first.  We order the sequence of our lives relative to the economic value of each action.  We see work as life-sustaining, the most important of all endeavors.  So we tell our present selves that work must come first, and we promise our future selves that we can play once all of the work is done.  But sometimes the work is never done, sometimes there is no end to it, and sometimes we allow work to consume us.  The more the better, we tell ourselves as we try to build a nest around our lives.  This is especially true when we don’t make enough money, or when we are deeply in debt, or when we are starving.  There is no balance between work and play, because play has lost all of its relevance in a world where survival is our only concern.  So we burn out like a shooting star over the course of years.  And if we are lucky enough to survive, we are told by everyone around us that we need to relax more.  In all the time that we’ve spent trying to sustain ourselves and our loved ones, we forgot to spend time with ourselves and our loved ones.  There was no time given to maintenance, no reflection, no joy.  We have betrayed our own reasons for working to begin with.  In all of our efforts to protect it, we have forgotten to stop and treasure the very life that we hold so dear.  And so we renew our promise with our future selves, to make play time a greater priority, and over the years we find better balance.

Some of us put play first.  We can’t help ourselves, it’s just too much fun.  So we play now, and we promise that we will work later, and we obligate our future selves to maintain our integrity.  Some of us believe that play helps to get us in the right frame of mind for work.  But sometimes we just can’t get enough.  Sometimes we don’t want to work, ever again, ever.  We yearn for wings that require no fuel.  We can’t accept that we are responsible for sustaining the world around us.  So we climb in a hole, and we hide from our responsibilities.  We make our past selves into a liar.  We betray our own intentions.  We become our own wrench in our own gears.  For some of us, this is a downward spiral that continues, into depression, self-loathing, substance abuse...  Some of us manage to pull out of these nose dives, but in either case it is a reminder that running away from our responsibilities is not an answer to anything.  And so we get up, and we try again.  We renew our promise to our future selves to make work a greater priority, and over the years we find a better balance.

Some of us are both of these people.  It just depends on the season.  And honestly, I don’t think it matters whether you put work or play first.  I’ve done both, and there are merits for either.  But in either case, the point is this:  Learning to consistently honor our obligations, within and without, to others and to ourselves, across the expanse of time, is directly related to our potential for living a thriving, successful, and happy life, in whatever way that we define it.