As an adult, I think I’ve probably always carried myself in the way that I do now, on the outside, to some extent, at least for the past 15 years or so.  But I had a lot of inner personal struggles going on back then, struggles that I wasn’t sure would ever end, some that still haven’t.  But I’ve never given up the struggle, at least not for long.  What I don’t think I saw coming, was the mental strength that a person could build up with such an endless struggle, and how much you learn, and grow smarter for the wear.  I feel like I have super powers sometimes, because they’re powers that I never had before.  

They say that the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over, expecting a different result.  But this is also the definition of practice.  Every time I went through a struggle, I examined myself, I argued within, I worked on breathing, relaxing, and win or lose, I kept my eyes forward and moved on with life.

And now I realize that the key to teamwork and leadership in family or community - whether you are the parent or the child, the pastor or the layperson, the teacher or the student - the key is always humility, a steady effort to improve yourself as a person, and a willingness to serve in all capacities.  Not merely because it calms the wild and broken souls around you; but also because when the moments come when you must challenge the status quo, or draw your people together,  or require their trust and faith in the times when they may not understand what you’re going through, or what you’re going for, in the moments when you need to inspire your peers, or move your audience... In those times, they must see you as an ally, as a supporter, they must know you as a friend and a sibling.  They must see that you are taking control of your own life, always moving forward, always learning, always improving in many ways.  But more importantly, you should see yourself that way, with every fibre of your being.  

And so it should be self explanatory why you can’t fully achieve this goal, until you have cleansed your soul, your very core, of all darkness, all childishness and selfishness, until you have chased away from your mind, all that is shallow, animal, or anything that disregards the dignity or worth of others.  Until this becomes your direction, how can you withstand the scrutiny of your parents and siblings, how can you answer the teacher’s challenge, or how can you believe in yourself as a leader?[^1]. How can you stand before your people and ask them to believe in anything that you say, if your self discipline isn’t evident and pure?  Forget about the judgement of God; this is the real judgement day.

I know that it’s not this black and white, and if you don’t know it, know it now.  Perfection is a journey, not a destination, a direction, not an end.  This is why, when you’re younger, it is expected that the ideal self that you show new people, may not completely match the flawed person that you show to those who are closest to you.  But you should never give up wanting and trying to be that person.  And that person in your mind’s eye should always be growing and evolving, just like you are, always a hundred steps ahead of you.  Perhaps the person you are today, should be a bit more like the person you imagined yourself to be five years ago, in the moments when you were trying to make a good first impression.  And if that isn’t so, consider refocusing, tightening your aim, increasing your effort, tweaking your strategy, or maybe even taking a completely different approach to life.


[^1]: If you’re the leader, then where are you going?