When Joey Livingston was 5, he loved The Muppet Show so much, that he learned to grasp the very concept of time itself, by asking people to convert minutes into Muppet Shows for him.  Jim Henson was the second person whose death Joey ever had to face, after his great grandmother.  He wept over them both.

When Joey was 6, he discovered Garfield.  He sought out every collected volume of Jim Davis’ work, and can still sing the theme song for the Garfield Saturday morning cartoon, which he still thinks is a great song.

When Joey was 12, he was selected by his art teacher, to be one of two students that year who would paint a picture on a ceiling tile, which would be inserted into the ceiling of the school’s large central library.  The library had an enormous vaulted ceiling, with paintings scattered across it like stars in the sky.

When Joey was 13, he discovered Calvin & Hobbes, and fell truly in love with the elegant ink work of Bill Watterson.  In the years that followed, he plunged into other comic books and graphic novels, and studied many artists who are considered to be legends today, like Jim Lee, Todd McFarlane, Marc Silvestri, and others.  It was during this era that Joey dreamt of one day telling a story of his own through this magical medium.

In high school, Joey made a C in Honors English.  This was because he rarely attended the class.  He had somehow talked the vice principal into giving him special permission to skip it.  During this time, he taught himself graphic design in a computer class which had no real teacher.  That same year, he was asked to serve as the graphic design lead for the high school newspaper, a position that he didn’t know existed.  He also won first and third places in graphic design in the state-level school art competitions, and was elected Art Club President.

In Joey’s Junior year, he decided to go back to his old buddy, the vice principal, to get special permission to start a new high school sanctioned group called The Graphic Concepts Society, an art club focused primarily on the writing and development of comic books.  This group published two magazines that year, and were allowed to visit other classrooms in order to sell them to the students.  They didn’t sell very many, and the teachers were often annoyed.

At 17, with the promise of scholarships and an amazing art career on the horizon, Joey decided to flip over the table of his life, and walk away.  That year, he left his home without his mother’s blessing, skipped his senior year, and went on a journey of self-discovery.  One of the more notable things that he discovered, is that there are many better ways to go about discovering yourself.

Once the ashes of Joey’s adolescent explosion had settled, he spent the first decade of his adult life in devotion to God, studying the biblical texts in-depth, as well as learning the original languages they were written in.  He also taught himself web design and video production as a means to lift his church’s profile in the local community.  When the church computers could no longer support the speed and burden of media production, he built two custom computers for their media department, because it was the only way, at that time, to have a computer fast enough to produce any video production worth putting on television. The church had invested thousands to make this possible, with no guarantee that the final machines would even work or get the job done.  But they did, and Joey gained master-level experience in modern graphics and video production from everything that preceded and proceeded during this era of devotion.

When Joey was 25, he moved to Pensacola, Florida, and it was there that he met the love of his life, Monica, and a couple of years later, they married.  During the first couple of years, Monica drove them both to work and back, every day, while Joey studied programming in the passenger seat.  He was working as a pre-pressman back then, and learned everything about professional print layout.  He was later hired to manage the media department for a design agency in Charlotte, North Carolina, but they later moved back to Pensacola to be near their community before having children.  Over the next few years, Joey and Monica had two children, a son and a daughter.  They are crazy human beings who drive their parents up the wall.

At the age of 31, Joey was offered a large share in a UK-based design agency.  He spent several years working with this overseas team, and gained one lifelong friend in the process. He later decided to dissolve his ownership and move into freelance engineering, which he did for the next decade.  He now serves as a lead engineer for a product development agency, as well as the art director for a bi-weekly comic strip.

More than a decade ago, Joey realized that he was never going to achieve his dream of creating a comic book series, unless he could conceive of a single inspiring idea from which to begin.  So after many sketches and writing attempts, Sliver of Light was born.  He has worked in his spare time since then, almost every day in the more recent years, to bring this project into a fully developed state.  

For many years, Joey's mantra has been, "When I grow up, I want to be prolific."