Do I want my children to have a healthy and meaningful relationship with a life partner?  Of course I do.  Do I want them to be patient and respectful parents?  Unquestionably.  So why would I do anything to jeopardize the best example that they will ever have?  Their grandma and grandpa have set a stellar example for them, but they’re not as close to our children as Monica and I are.  Monica has been my only love, and my only sexual partner.  She has been loyal, supportive, and ever-so-humble in her relationship with me.  As I have her.  And yet, as in my youth, there are forces within me that I battle every day, which threaten my strength as a husband, my power as a father, and my reputation as a man.

As a child, I never had a good family example nearly that close to me.  The most faithful of partners were held together by a religious bond that I struggled to understand.  The happiest couples were those at the beginning of their relationship, but their passion always faded.  Even in my adult life, my greatest teacher was himself in a patient process of escaping an abusive spouse, his second wife.  His third relationship has become a shining beacon of lasting marital integrity, but he got married only a couple of years before I did.  And yet somehow he has managed to lead me away from religious dogmatism, the roots of every allegedly successful marriage I had ever witnessed, while simultaneously convincing me that a much better reason for family fidelity existed.  

Religion, like any tool, can be misused, and by conflating loyalty to a person, with loyalty to a god, it weakens the bonds that are true, and adds strength to the bonds we often have to beautiful, but fictional mythology. Religion has the tendency to destroy its own foundation, humanity, by denying its roots, humanity.[^1]. And yet one true and lifelong bond between two people can move more mountains than any dogma ever could.  And so we build our community upon the true bonds of humanity, we hold each other tight, we trust and are trusted, transparent to one, and translucent to many.  We never deny these bonds or replace them with myth and dogma.  We faithfully tell the story of who we are, and let time be the editor.

In my early life, my implicit plan was to follow the best path of morality that I had ever truly witnessed in my life.  I planned to seek my life partner, one partner at a time.  I planned to find monogamy, one sex partner at a time.  My intentions were true, but I wasn’t going to marry until I witnessed everything that I could about my potential partner, mind and body.  And that vision, that dream (so to speak), may have come true, were it not for my awkwardness with women at that age.  Now I’m in my mid forties, having witnessed and understood a truer way, married for 16+ years, much more capable in any social situation, and still on a path to settling the beast within me, the one that never got to fully express its untamed nature.  There was, after all, an implicit promise to myself, that I would probably get to experience multiple sex partners in my lifetime.  Now I know that there was always a better way, at least in the heart, the potential of a greater desire for fidelity. Now I know that it is still within my grasp, that it will change the destiny of my descendants like a tsunami, and all I have to do is find a way to tame, and to utterly deny, the primitive piece of me that had, at one time, hoped to find life in this present world.  In retrospect, finding true love the first time around was always likely.  My wife has never failed me.  I should’ve known that I’m smart enough to spot a life partner when I see them.  I should’ve seen that coming.

[^1]: Not everything I have to say about religion is negative.