For as long as I can remember, I’ve believed, at least in theory, that it was more important to understand what was right, than to be seen as being right.  And I think that we all believe this, in theory.  The feeling of being wrong isn’t always pleasant, especially when we lack humility.  As children, we can’t stand it when we’re vulnerable, when others can see our weaknesses and our flaws.  I was no exception, and in my youth I fought many stubborn battles against my elders and my friends.  And since I was young, and so knew to this world, I was usually wrong.  Many times I found myself cornered.  I remember explicitly thinking to myself, that you didn’t lose an argument until you admitted it, and I could be very clever in continuing a futile line of reasoning, in hiding my own error and embarrassment.  Embarrassment.  In bare ass ment.  It’s almost like the word was designed to say you feel naked.  Here I am everybody, warts, moles, scars and all. There’s nowhere to hide.  To this day, I sometimes find myself in a situation where I’m afraid to admit my error.  It’s better to learn what is right, than to be seen as right.  And that means I have to admit it.  If I continue speaking out of error, I risk confusing myself, the person I’m speaking to, and everyone around me, and robbing them of the precious opportunity to cling to a better viewpoint.  It’s better to understand what is correct, than to be seen as correct.  Something that I have believe, at least in theory, for as long as I can remember.  But in my twenties, I had a teacher, a master of patience, who believed this too, and I watched as he lived it out.  It wasn’t just a thing you say with him.  I watched him listen gently to others, and accept correction on any topic for which he was not an expert.  As his student, I learned this discipline.  I have this process that runs in the back of my mind when I’m in a conversation, that listens for new information, listens for ides that may challenge my viewpoint, and stands ready to accept and process thoughtful ideas, to respond as a student.  I’ve learned to disregard those who view the admission of error as weakness.  I’ve learned that listening, asking constructive questions, and offering positive thoughts, is never the wrong decision, especially amongst my friends and family.  It’s not a weakness, it’s not even an admission of error.  Instead, it is a gesture of trust, extended to the people in the room, a willingness to listen demonstrated, a friendly challenge to play a game of good sportsmanship ship, where we celebrate all victory, not just our own.  The  triumph of pure education is far better than standing victorious with you foot set proudly upon the neck of your loved one.  And if I love them, it is far better that they experience that triumph by my side.