In my junior year of high school, I averaged a C in English for most of the year.  This was largely due to the fact that the vice principal of the school had granted me special permission to skip my English class as long as I kept my grade up, but the minimum score wasn’t specified.  So I made a C while skipping English on most days.  The reason that the VP had granted me this permission, was because I had been asked to serve as the graphics editor of the school newspaper.  I hadn’t asked for this position, nor had I even expressed any interest.  But in my Freshman year, I had gained almost exclusive access to two state-of-art Apple computers that had been purchased for the Art department.  They wanted to start a new class specifically for graphic design, but there was no teacher who even knew where to begin.  Once I gravitated toward them, my Art teacher, Mrs. Winnard, decided to make me one of two students in their new graphic design program, and I was to design the curriculum for myself.  This basically meant that whatever I created using those computers, I had to turn it in as my assignment.  I was never rushed or pressured, but that was completely unnecessary, because I was very excited to explore the new possibilities.  So by my Junior year, I knew nothing about newspaper editing, design, or layout; but when it came to the next generation’s way of creating print-ready graphics, I knew more than anyone in the school, child or adult.  So this group of kids and adults in the journalism department, none of whom knew me personally, requested, through my art teacher, that I join their team.  I interacted with them very little for that entire year.  Instead, I sat in my little room across the school, in the back of the art department, playing with my computers.  When they needed something, they sent me the specs.  I created it, printed it, and walked it across to their department, where they glued it to their layout sheets.  Later in life, I learned how to layout an entire newspaper on a computer, but back then, I was helping to invent the most advanced school newspaper layout workflow that our district had ever seen.