In my opinion, when experiencing anxiety, it's important to understand an aknowledge that you're experiencing a chemically-induced reaction in your brain.  At first, simply pondering this truth diliberately while it's happening, or later when you reflect, is enough.  But if done often enough, you should begin to feel this idea below the surface of consciousness, as a non-verbal awareness, something more instinctive.  

When I was younger, I learned why we experienced certain emotions and physical sensations as we went through the experiences of life.  But I didn't understand what difference it made, just to know what caused emotion.  The end result was the same, whether it was magic or science.  But later I began to understand that other people go through similar life experiences, tense moments, stressful choices, etc., and they don't seem to react with the same level of anxiety.  Why?  There can only be one reason.  It's not because I'm a coward, or because I'm weak or selfish...it's simply because my body's chemical reaction is different from their body's chemical reaction.  And why is that?  Who knows, maybe something traumatica happened to me as a child, maybe it's genetic, or maybe it's something else.  The point is, it's not my fault.  Once you accept this, the steps that follow are incredible, and for me at least, they including gaining more courage and less anxiety.  Slowly, but surely, as I looked my monster in its face and understood it for what it truly was, it began to shrink.