I’ve sat on my porch weeping many times over the past few of years.  It feels good, it’s meditative, better than any prayer I ever prayed.  And as I sat there, I begin to understand how many of my choices have probably had a direct effect over the impoverished state of our community group.  I know it’s not my fault.  Leaving Christianity had some interesting and unexpected consequences for all of us, not all good, and spiritually fatal for some.  Or maybe they never had a spirit (speaking poetically).  Who knows.  But even as I drifted toward the exit, I had lost interest in many things concerning the studio.  Youth activities, producing shows, music. We all did, to some degree.  Did I start it?  I don’t know.

I have also been addicted to porn since my youth, with very little confidence that there was any escape.  Though I did continue to struggle, and not without great consideration of what I was doing, shifting strategies, and ultimately some measurable results.

My career also began to consume me when no one managed me anymore, when I began to work from home.  This was more than a decade ago now.  My amateur attempts at managing my own time left me with tons of work on last-minute deadlines born from procrastination, sleep depravation, staying up late and sleeping in, etc.  And since my family has always been important to me, any leftover time that I had was spent with them.  This made it impossible to make time for my personal passions, such as art, my comic book project, music, etc.

I few years back, I finally started pushing hard to get the arts back into my life at all costs.  I failed over and over, experiencing what seemed like months with nothing but freelance coding all day. But in the last couple of years, and also thanks to better digital tablets and music equipment, I’ve found more time and satisfaction and the arts than I have in decades.  

This has brought me a lot of happiness.  I wouldn’t say that I was unhappy before, but there was a growing darkness around me that I was really failing to understand.  And so this whole struggle has taught me an unmeasurable amount about what light and darkness really are.  I don’t like to always point out that I’m speaking poetically.  I think it ruins the fun.  But it does educate the atheistic mind to when they can understand that speaking poetically doesn’t take away from what is theism.  Rather, this is the language that we use when we point to something deep and virtually ungraspable, but is nevertheless present, and we are nevertheless reaching.

The darkness taught me much about my loyalty to my wife.  Firstly and simply, it taught me that I was loyal to my wife.  She became an anchor as it tried to pull me in.  Once I understood this, I also understood how futile and utterly hellish the path I was on, with my addiction to pornography, would truly become, as it pulled my mind away from the meaningful into the meaningless, and ultimately left me, left us, with nothing a friendly business relationship.  I also saw the effect it would have on my son, if I couldn’t lead him in all sincerity, from my very soul, away from the path that the internet makes so accessible.  The conclusion had never been clearer.  And so I don’t know how long it has been, perhaps six months or more, where my access has been little to nothing, and a couple of months ago, I simply asked Monica to lock all of my devices from adult content with a password that she would never forget.  I had always felt that filtering tech was far from perfect, sometimes overreaching, sometime failing.  But I after I had come this far, I realized that, for all its frustrations, it did filter out pretty much everything.

And so now I sit on my porch sometimes, and weep.  I see where I failed Monica, though I may have never done so in the physical world.  I see now the importance spiritual realm, much more so than I ever have.  I see how my slackness in this matter has made me feel like a dirty person, made me push away from others, not because they didn’t like me, but simply because I felt that they wouldn’t, they couldn’t, not if they knew me truly.  I see the part it played in our youth group slowly dissolving into nothing, into a group of kids who didn’t understand the importance of social cohesion, who became shy and insecure.  

Seeing all of this, understanding my role, my part, may place in this universe, and how much I am depended on.  It feels like a reprimand from God, and mandate from above.  It fills me with regret for the past, and hope for the future.  Once I could finally see clearly, how the darkness around me stretched out to those who are closest, it gave me the strength, strength that I never had before, to stand up to the darkness, and send it away forever.