Last Thursday I ran out of marijuana, and my supplier couldn’t get me any more until today, Sunday.  It has been an interesting experiment, the past couple of days without the substance that I have grown so fond of.  

For a while, I only smoked on the weekends, and then for the longest time, only on nights and weekends.  Now it’s anytime after twelve, and sometimes shortly after I wake and get oriented.  The sessions themselves are always measured, with small amounts except on the occasional weekend, but never incapacitating or debilitating, just relaxing.  It’s usually a pipe load in the early afternoon, one in the evening, and one late at night.  I’m about to switch back to a dry herb vaporizer for the sake of my lungs.

But with this recent shortage, I was curious to see how it would effect me.  Mainly, I grew increasingly grumpy and intolerant of others.  I also had some mild trouble sleeping last night.  Then today I finally got my refill, and now I feel so much better.  I want to be around others a bit more.  I’m enjoying life a bit more, letting go a bit more, relaxing a bit more.

So I find this disturbing.  My feeling is that things would’ve evened out after a few more days, if the shortage had continued.  Nevertheless, at first glance, it’s beginning to look like everything that I have ever feared about addiction.  I had seriously doubted that marijuana had any chemically addictive qualities.  I thought the addiction would be more like the addiction to coke, or potato chips; it’s just something you want, but don’t necessarily need.  And perhaps it is that way, but perhaps I want it a bit too much?  I increased the frequency of my usage with eyes wide open.  I wanted to see if it would help or hinder.  Do I now have my answer?

But then I realize that I’m forgetting something.  Me, 3-4 years ago, before I began smoking, after twenty years of abstinence.  That’s what I’m forgetting, what I was like back then.  And what was I like?  Well, I tended to be grumpy and intolerant of others.  I could argue that this was only because of the job I was stuck in, but I was like that before that job, when I was just freelancing.  But either way, I’m still recovering from the financial ruin of that crumby job, and I’m still freelancing.  The finances are getting better and better now, and the house is slowly healing, but I still feel like I’m holding my breath between paychecks.

So which is it?  Is there an addictive element to marijuana that causes withdrawal grumps?  Or is marijuana helping me to keep my life and my head balanced as I go through daily stresses?  

Will my children understand my choices when I’m asked to account for them?  One of the things that I really loved about marijuana is how, suddenly and almost effortlessly, I could put the day behind me and be present with my family.  Not to suggest that I couldn’t without it, but it removed some of the struggle that often hindered or debilitated me.  I remember, late one night, after smoking a bowl on the porch, alone with my thoughts, I began to weep deeply for the wounds in my soul that hindered my parenting skills, and hurt my children in kind, perhaps one day hindering their parenting skills.  Recently, I find the most profound and humble advise coming out my mouth in moments of trial with my children.  I don’t want to give marijuana the credit for this, but perhaps it’s a bit like a microphone, or some noise mufflers.

It was also while under these calming effects that I saw clearly, the situation that I had gotten myself into with this last job, and how crucial it was that I find a way out of it.  And in spite of my anxiousness to get out of it, it was also these calming effects that helped me to tolerate that miserable situation while I was stuck there.  Again, I wouldn’t go as far as to give marijuana sole credit, but perhaps it’s a bit like a mild tranquilizer.  I’ve always found it interesting, during these past few years of tribulation, that while my life continues to be stressful, and increasingly so for a couple of those years, I also witnessed me, coming out of my shell, a bit more and more, every day.  I would say that I’m a better person now, not because of that tribulation, or at least not solely.  But because of NCG for sure, and because of my family.  And perhaps also because I found a way to self-medicate that may be effective when measured?

In my struggle to examine myself, I often feel that my perspective is skewed by the stigma that came with marijuana in my childhood, and to this day, in our society.  Sometimes I feel some moderate guilt, but a more contemporary me wonders if it’s really warranted?