Form a family corporation around Symantix.  Make your spouse an official partner, and give your children a share in the company.  We are all consultants, coordinators, creators, content generators, service providers, leaders, etc.  We find ways to help others with their projects, and we work on our own projects.  That might be mowing a lawn, building a website, designing a show, authoring a comic strip, managing our properties (yard work, cleanup, laundry, etc.), learning a new skill or developing a talent.  Kids are made %10 partners, parents are %40.  When the kids learn to carry their weight, bear their responsibilities with class, and exhibit support, leadership, and humility toward others, they will become %15 partners, and maybe one day %20.  And then when we pass, 50%.  We have a central business account.  When we charge for our services, we use the company name, and payments are rendered to our corporate account.  Everyone gets a salary according to how much they are being supported, and how much they have been contributing in terms of effort and revenue, as decided by our board of directors, which is everyone, but the parents get the larger vote.  And when we withdraw funds beyond our salary, it's because we all own the company and have decided to do so together.  It's called dividends, and everyone gets a share of the withdraw, according to their share in the company.  We use this corporation to build something that is far more profitable than any of us could build on our own, because we give each other time to develop into our best selves, instead of rushing our next generation into jobs that they don't want or aren't ready for.  We support our developing generation while they get their feet firmly planted on this earth, and prepare themselves to stand fully on their own.  As we go through shared burdens and experiences in life, we pull and pool our corporate funds equally to get through them, good times or bad, for better or for worse.  This company continues, as it always has, to give approximately 30% of its revenue to the charitable and communal causes of NCG Studios.  And let these adventures blossom into the revenue that we will all need to build even greater adventures for the family and community that will ascend into heaven, into a better world for themselves and their children, in the coming generations.