Note to Self:  This time around, working with your dad on creative and educational projects, fight more for your own workflow.  Listen, but voice and compromise.  When you were a young man, you usually give in to his way of seeing things, and I think this allowed you to get overwhelmed easily.  Some work is better than no work, and relaxing is paramount.  I know he agrees with this, so perhaps it was your mom’s voice or your own voice you were hearing, interpreting his words through a filter of guilt, panic, and hurt in a world where survival wasn’t always easy.

This world is a terrifying place.  It has always amazed me, left me in awe, and for the most part it has treated me well.  But I’ve only recently begun to realize just how much it has terrified me, more and more with the passing time, as I realize what it could be, what it has been to some, and just how fragile life can be.  This is especially true now that I have a wife and children.

Perhaps this is the nature of greed, to look around in this world, to see the homeless, the rejected, the murdered, and to run from it so hard and so desperately, that you become the biggest part of the problem.

I’ve never had a panic attack, unless I simply didn’t recognize it as such.  Panic is like a string in my life, spanning from past to present.  It might be lying loose across the ground, or it be drawn into the air, or it might be pulled tightly.  It’s a chord that vibrates high or low, or not at all.  Sometimes I can’t hear it.  The tones are too low, or there is too much other music playing around me.  By the time I hear it, I may not understand why it’s playing, and that’s probably because it’s not playing for just one reason.  

The best thing I can do at this point is to try and relax, and let myself do whatever I feel like.  This isn’t as easy as it sounds, believe it or not.  What do you feel like doing?  We don’t always know.  We know what has brought us pleasure or eased our spirits in the past, but that doesn’t mean it will do so again.  Sometimes we end up going back play routine that we’re tired of.  We might sink into a vice.  But this time is not only about doing what I feel like doing.  It’s about healing.  It’s about calming the spirit, loosening the strings.  Vices are a short distraction that do nothing for the spirit except to numb it for a while.  So I find myself exploring painting or music, trying to find healing through color, texture, and sound.  Playing the right chords for a while.  This is hit or miss, and can become stressful if I’m not careful, if inspiration doesn’t come.  It’s better to set it down if you’re not having fun, and perhaps experience the creations of others for a while, reading a book or a comic, listening to music, looking at art, or watching a show.  Exercise is almost always a good answer, especially a walk.  Walks are very rhythmic and meditative, and you can surround yourself with the sounds of sights of nature.  This can ease the mind into a healing mode all on its own.  Oh, and resting, sleeping, dreaming.

Amongst all activities of healing, there is a common thread.  Whether sleeping and dreaming, painting or playing or exercising, there is the mind, processing, thinking, resolving, letting go.  Perhaps I will discover some of the reasons why the cord of panic has been ringing, and that will calm my spirit.  Or perhaps I will discover none of them, and instead come back to one truth:  That there is nothing so forgettable that is worth troubling my tender soul.  And then I will let go.

They say that everyone prays in their own way.