Porn makes me feel humiliated and hopeless.  In order to have any dignity in life, I have to either avoid the topic with any of my friends and family, or lie on some level, if only implicitly.  I never crossed any lines that have been so poorly drawn by a culture that accepts pornography as an unavoidable reality, but I began to understand how those lines became blurred from where I stood, and I watched as some around me crossed those lines, and the destruction it caused, and it horrified me.  

People just don’t understand the slow current that pulls you as you synthetically indulge your primal self.  What will evolve in us, if we continue to stir up this beast that thrives on sex and violence, without intimately knowing, understanding, and loving the person with whom, and toward whom, we allow this part of us to become unleashed?  Can anything good come from exploring the climaxes of sexuality with other homo sapiens, when fully understanding their humanity, their hopes, fears, their dreams, is not even possible from where you stand, in a moment, a situation, a predicament, where hiding your true self in an integral part of the experience?  

And how long does it take to know someone this deeply?  A year will show you a grain of sand on their beach, but given the mortality of these bodies, most of us accept that as a minimum, with little hope for weaker bonds.  An exploration of sexuality should be accompanied by an exploration of another soul.  Anything less is like trying to solve a puzzle with most of the pieces missing; if you even see a picture, it won’t be the full one.  And what conclusions might we draw from such an incomplete picture?

And this is the path by which we slowly begin to devalue ourselves and others.  This is why the borders to the badlands become closer, whether you cross them or not.  The current is slow, but the direction is inevitable and unchanging.  If you ever get caught in it, your only choice is to hold the line forever, or face the beast that you’ve been abusing, and try to correct past mistakes.  And you’re only hope of succeeding, is to see and understand the trap you’re caught in, and try to make your primal self understand the folly of your path.

Porn stirs the soul in all the wrong ways.  It pulls the civil toward the animal, the peaceful toward the violent.  I’m not convinced that a world with porn can ever be a world without war.  And yet trying to solve a problem with violence is like trying to solve it with porn.  So the path to peace, as always, is slow, patient, steady, bold, and vigilant.