It’s strange.  I left religion and church years ago, and yet I find value and meaning in both religion and church.  In gathering, in knowing one another, in committing and investing in one another, for no other reason than to try and make the world a little bit brighter.  I find value in gathering as a family with those of different blood.   I find value in thinking about the ideal human being collectively.  (That last bit is also why I love Star Trek, by the way, and though I don’t put the two in the same category for all the previous reasons, science fiction always has much to say on the topic of an evolved humanity.)

I believe that Jesus showed us a beautiful picture of an ideal man - a divine picture, if you will - like a living artist, whose canvas was life.  I believe he is a true historical figure, but regardless, his story demonstrated something about love that was socially revolutionary.

But our collective idea of what the ideal human being looks like, has evolved over the centuries, and rightly so.  Jesus, for example, for all his wonder, was not always seen by Christian people as the perfectly serene and all-loving savior that he has become, and is becoming, today.  When I was a kid, and even up to the present for many pockets of Christendom, the collective image of Christ was that of a righteous warrior of justice, who would ultimately shed blood against anyone who did not bow to him, and torment them in hell forever.  But as intense as that is, it was an evolution, a step up, from centuries before that, when this ideal man was seen as a savior only to the gentiles.  This is a hard reality for Christians to face; a time in history when the church taught that Jewish people were hated and cursed for what they did to the Christian messiah; a message that was not only racist, but ultimately lead to the holocaust, another very difficult pill to take responsibility for.  Before that, generation after generation, Christ was seen as a banner for the righteous team in this game called “World Domination”.  It energized the Holy Roman Empire as it swept across the Mediterranean Sea and into Northern Europe.  It brought civility and cooperation to an enormous conquering force, while simultaneously demolishing other smaller, but equally valuable cultures and religions, as it swept across the world.

All the while, the inner unification of Christianity, flawed as it was, made a path forward for humanity to innovate, cooperate, and think of family as something much larger than blood, far from perfectly inclusive, but far more inclusive than the previous models for humanity.  And while there was still much tribalism and racism to contend with, at least these matters were now debateable.

I have nothing educated to say about the Muslim faith in this regard, accept to suggest that their religion seems to be having a similar story arc:  A flawed but effective system of unification within the people of that system that provided cooperation and innovation on a massive scale, a banner for the righteous team, which transcended nationality, but was still accompanied by a waning disregard for the value of other races and cultures, a disregard that has slowly faded away and begun to evolve into something better over the centuries.  

And so here we are today, and the most ideal human being has no gender, but is also every gender.  It has no skin color, but it is also all skin colors.  It sees neither color nor gender, and yet it sees all of it.  It is kind.  It is patient.  It is generous.  It is educated in whatever manner brings value to it (and IQ is not the only measure of intelligence).  It works hard, finds happiness in its own labor, and contributes to the society around it... all of this in whatever way it defines such things specifically, whether carpentry or cooking, painting or landscaping, writing, cleaning, or many other things, or above all, “merely” thinking (as in Chomsky, Kaine Diatheke, Jordan Peterson, Hitchens, etc...).  It has a general and unconditional love for all people.  It begins all relationships with a gesture of trust and cautious optimism.  It values life, knowledge, and wisdom, above all else.  It is considerate, empathic, and compassionate.  It is vulnerable but not foolish.  It is optimistic but also pragmatic.  It is idealistic but also adaptable.  It is both social and solitary; it speaks to its friends, and it speaks within.  It is courageous but not foolhardy.  It has learned to channel the fire of its anger into positive and controlled energy.  It is loyal, it protects its friends and family, its country, and all humanity.  And the list goes on.  It is beautiful.  It is you.  It is me.

When I think of this ideal human being, I think of a man.  His skin is light tan.  He has a beard, and he’s an artist.  You guessed it, genius.  It’s me.  Who I am in real life is much more flawed than the above template, by the way.  That’s just what I want to be like.  And so I am, little by little, becoming a better person, as I define it.  And how I define it has a lot to do with what I see in you, the world, and what I hear from you too.

I also think of a woman, my wife, who spends most of her day doing something to make the lives of children better, and doesn’t ask for a dime in return.  A few other women and men, boys and girls, also come to mind, who seem to be trying hard to be the best kind of person that humanity has to offer.  I’ve enjoyed hearing what they’ve had to say on the topic, and I’m still listening.  And there are many more of us out there, we who transcend race and gender, and religion.  And perhaps even politics and nationalism, if only a little. 🙂

I don’t know if I’m as good as Jesus or not, but I am sure that Jesus had plenty of imperfect moments, in spite of what the biblical writers would have us believe.  Story tellers back then were not really that into writing about flaws.  Nevertheless, the story demonstrates a picture of selfless love that is ultimately beautiful, and well worth thinking about.  And the life of Jesus ultimately inspires Paul’s writings about the Christ, the ideal human being, a much different and more universally loving image than would have ever been portrayed by most of Jesus’ own disciples.  And Paul’s steps also lead humanity forward.  And I’m grateful that today we have continued to take steps forward, beyond Jesus, beyond Paul.  We have improved on Paul’s dream with a better ideal image of a human being, one which embraces women, and all genders, in all manner of leadership, enslaves no one, and is currently even considering showing that same level of respect to many animals, maybe all of them, and even some bugs too. 🙂

I don’t claim to be a Christian anymore, but I do respect all religious history.  You call it folly, I call it cultural evolution.  You call it fiction, I call it an eternal and poetic conversation about the living, breathing, conscious universe around us.  One does not simply stop telling a story that epic.  We’re just about to get to the good part, folks. 🙂

Signed,

Joey Livingston
A lifelong student at NCG Studios