The nature of evil is self survival.  Is that right? [^1]

I think about a young girl I once knew, a surrogate niece or little sister of sorts, and the lies she told about her friends, my Dad, and likely others.  I think about why she would’ve committed such undeserved, unprovoked acts of evil on these people, wounding them deeply.  And the only reasonable explanation I can think of is self preservation.  In each instance, it is most likely that she did something wrong, and was trying to cover it up at all costs (this is certainly true in some instances).  

Was this the nature of Jezebel?  Pure survival instinct?  That’s how I see it.  If it’s true, it strips evil of many of our reasons for hating it so much.  And perhaps that’s why so many of us can’t accept that.  If evil is survival instinct, then it’s not a monster, it’s is also a child.  A small distinction, for sure.  But aren’t we all fragile creatures in a violent world?

I think about my daughter, and how she lashes out at people she loves for no apparent reason, and never provides any explanation why.  I think about what she went through in her early life, before we knew her, and how enormous her survival instinct must be.  I worry that she may never realize that the emergency is over, that she is safe.  I worry that survival instinct, which is basically just an animal, will overtake her and control her future.  And I know that her only hope is her connection to those who love her, who won’t let her isolate herself.  

But how long can we hold on while she continues to take an axe to the very branches that hold us together?  Our community, our family, our friendship.  She has little patience when the situation is not in her control, when things aren’t going her way, and she lashes out at others.  In her recent years, I can see her trying to suppress these impulses when she’s angry.  But a wakened beast doesn’t sleep.  She knows she’s hurting others, and she gets buried in the turmoil of guilt and anger, and that makes her over-sensitive and defensive.  She wants to be alone, isolated, so that this energy broiling inside her doesn’t hurt anyone, but that can last for hours, or even days, and that removes her from the family, and that is unacceptable.  It doesn’t take long before she is insulting and disrespectful to every bond that we all have together.  She becomes very rude as a means to push away all conversation, she spurns any notion of a hug, and won’t even let me put my hand on her shoulder without an attack of insults.  And she won’t explain any of it, because it doesn’t make any sense to begin with.  She’s just trying to survive in a world that she can’t control, a world that once wounded her deeply, and made her feel terrified beyond all reason and measure, at a time when she was supposed to be learning what it felt like to be completely safe.

I have a path in mind for my daughter.  She wouldn’t like to hear that.  She would reject it.  But it’s the same path that the best of who she is wants for herself, because I know her better than she thinks I do.  And just because I know this, and want this path, this life for her, that might be just enough reason for the worst of her to reject everything I stand for.  Because that part of her hates me with every fiber of its being, and it will weave a web of lies just to prove me wrong.  I am not the type of parent who decides my children’s future, who says “my daughter will be a doctor” and then just makes her become a doctor.  But I know my daughter’s path, and I know when she’s on it, and I know when she’s not.  And in this way I am her guide in this life, I am a cheat code in her game.  But she may never accept that, because she doesn’t want to relinquish any control of her destiny to anyone else.  And a guide without respect, is just a babbling idiot.

A captain knows where they want to go.  A navigator knows how to get there.  We are all the captains of our own ship, but without our navigators, we would find ourselves stranded in the ocean forever.

[^1]: That’s the lesson that the character of Gaius Baltar teaches us in the 2004 version of BattleStar Galactica. 
