This is the last day of a long 4-day weekend, back to work tomorrow.  I spent most of the holiday sitting around watching tv or listening to podcasts.  On Friday I spent at least an hour just looking for a new show to watch, and found nothing that interested me.  I’ve been working on my brother’s new logo here and there, and that has been fulfilling.  But what I haven’t done in more than a year is work on my comic, with the occasional exception of an hour here and there, once in a blue moon.  The last time I spent any significant time on it was around 2018, and that was when I had a retainer contract with a company that couldn’t figure out how to utilize me.  For about a year, I got a glimpse of what retirement might be like, and used my free time wisely.  But when I have a true full-time employment schedule, as I do now, all I want to do when I’m done is chill.  That won’t get this comic done.  

On a brighter note, I have finally achieved my goal of getting up around 5am in the morning, going to bed by 9 or 10.  I have lots of time in the morning.  I’ve been using some of the time for daily yard work, which is great exercise.  But the rest of the time is mostly just chilling, listening to a podcast.  Maybe a little bit of reading for personal and career improvement, but nothing to really brag about.  My greatest wish is that I will soon begin creating the habit of daily art exercise, beginning with work on my comic, and perhaps that forever.  A daily routine that includes this work is my only chance of completing the first episode, and that is the smallest of my dreams.