When I was 17, I left my home and the two people I was closest to, with barely a goodbye.  My mother forbid it, and I defied her, so there was no ceremony.  In doing so, I instantly disconnected myself from my family.  And then, as the scene unfolded over the next couple of years, I never went back to that life, never really had the time to restore those connections.  I couldn’t have comprehended how traumatic the impact of that decision would be, nor did I see the tsunami as it swept across my psyche over the next decades.  That decision caused me to forget, at least in part, what it meant to have an enduring permanent connection with another person. Who knows, perhaps I never had it, considering that I was without my mother from the ages of 2-4.  I remember my younger brother pursuing a renewed relationship with me in my late twenties.  Then he went into the military, and a few years later he gave me his hot rod car to take care of while he was overseas.  I didn’t worry too much about him, because he told me that he wasn’t in the battle zone, he simply worked in munitions.  Now I’m older, and I understand that any place near a battle zone, is a potential battle zone, especially a munitions bunker.  Now I’m in my early forties, and my little brother has chosen to move very close to me, about an hour’s drive away.  In all the time that I have been apart from my little brother, I have spent decades with the only true dad I have ever known, and the only man that I have ever accepted as such.  And in my time knowing him, he has helped me both to remember, and to learn for the first time, what it means to be family, and what it means to create everlasting bonds amongst family, friends, and community.