When I was in the sixth grade, I was told by a girl that knew me since I was in the first grade, that I was a popular kid until the third grade.  I had no idea.  I do remember hanging out with a few of the kids that I considered popular, but I had no idea that I was considered to be part of that group.

Now I’m in my forties, and I’m discovering that I am liked and respected by those around me, much more than I thought.  I suddenly realize that I have always been at the center of anything I’m involved in, and I’m beginning to understand some very subtle behaviors in the people around me, that make it clear that I’m respected and admired, even by people who don’t seem to like me very much, like my boss.  He, for example, is simply angry with me because I stood up to him, and he now knows that there are certain things that he can’t ask me to do, like work long hours.  And he’s a control freak, so this annoys him.  But when we begin to talk shop, and we’re both firing on all cylinders, brain storming, inventing some strategy, I can see his tail wagging.  He loves talking to me.

My dad is another example.  I’ve always looked up to him, I’ve always wanted to spend lots of time with him, talk to him, and hear his feedback on life, my problems, everything.  But recently I’ve also started to see how much he wants my feedback.  I’ve started to see how much he’s like me, and always has been like me, since before I knew him.  How he longs to be creative, to express himself, to bring what’s inside out into the world.
