You know when you’re deeply engaged in a conversation with someone, to the point where everything else around you is kind of in a fog?  You’re out of touch with other people in the room, because your focus is sharply stunned to the person itting across from you.  This is exactly how it is with canabis sometimes, except that there doesn’t have to be anyone else there.  It’s not that you’ve lost your senses, it’s just that they deeply attuned to whatever they are directed at.  They might be directed within or without, but they are so focused on their subject, that it can be challenging to shift that focus when challenged to.  This is why people can pay for long periods of time, staring at the ceiling.  Not that they are incapacitated, but that they are deeply introspective.  The danger of this state of mind is that hours of valuable work, thinking and focusing, can get lost forever, wasted in time, because the person could not get focused on capturing the fruit of their labor by writing, drawing, building, sculpting, etc.  And this is why, as with many things - a hammer, a screwdriver, a car, a gun, a pencil, etc. - the benefits and dangers of canabis are dependent on the user, and that in order to use any tool effectively, one must become very self disciplined and responsible in the matter.  We do not swing hammers at just any target, we don’t use pencils to stab our neighbor, and we live our life as if the gun is loaded.  And using canabis to waste your life living inside your brain is the kind of choice that gives the substance a bad reputation.  If you believe canabis is good, then use it responsibly, and behave responsibly while under its influence. Learn to be disciplined, find the strength to direct your razor focus where it is needed, whether that be capturing a thought, being present and adding value to conversation, or helping a friend do a chore.  Don’t claim that a plant helps you to feel better as a person, and then allow its deep-focus properties to constantly lure you into an introspective state that causes you to withdraw from the people around you.