When you're young, you make a lot more mistakes.  Sometimes you don't like yourself very much, and the result is often that you stop taking care of yourself.  A big key to finding your way past this phase of your life, is realizing two things on opposite ends of the strata.  It may feel like you're pulling one lever and pushing another.  

You must realize on the one hand, that if you're gonna survive with any dignity at all in this life, you're gonna have to commit yourself to doing better, to making less mistakes, hurting less people, working both harder and smarter, to produce more and better results than what you've accomplished so far in all of your desperate blundering.  You're gonna have to get ahold of yourself, discipline yourself, and take control of many things which you once left in the cruel hands of fate.  

And on the other hand, you must realize that, in order for this to be possible, you must reward yourself just as consistently as you discipline yourself.  You must provide yourself with the means to recover from a hard day's work, every day.  Whatever is within reason, and occasionally a bit beyond what is reasonable, you must treat yourself to that which is both healthy and refreshing, to the body and the mind.  On the discipline side, that may mean less sugar, less bread, less potatoes or processed food, you must find out what makes your body and mind feel bad and perform poorly, and get rid of it.  On the reward side, that may mean more meats, more eggs, vegetables and fruits, foods that aren't as accessible as popping open a bag or box, foods that take discipline to learn how to fully appreciate, foods that charge and nourish the body in the way it was meant to be, foods that provide energy for a full day of focus and accomplishment.  

You are your own caretaker, so if you want to make a dent in this world, you're going to have to start treating yourself like a prize fighter.  That means that one day, when it is reasonable, you deserve to have your greatest dreams come true.  In the mean time, you must do what is necessary.