It seems to be the nature of society, to take the poor of mind and the poor of pocket, or simply those we disapprove of, and move them as far away from normal society, especially the wealthy, as possible.  We claim to be an enlightened culture that wants to see the impoverished lifted up, and yet our actions assert a firm desire to leave them, and their children, right where they are, swimming in the only mess that they've ever known.  If we continue to exist like this, these situations will only become worse, and our foolish methods for dealing with them, will become far more foolish.

This is the exact opposite of what is needed.  We all know, that in order for a child to grow and flourish, they need positve influences in their life, not just some of the time, but all of the time.  And yet, when the child approaches the age of accountability, when they start growing whiskers or wearing makeup - or maybe even if they just start acting disrespectfully - we begin to treat them as if they should have their life together, and if they don't, it's all their fault.  We claim that they deserve the chance to succeed, we claim that they deserve the same opportunities as everyone else, but we move them as far away as possible, into places where there are no opportunities, and everything and everyone around them, tells them that they are worthless, that they can't do anything to rise above their circumstances.  We are lying to ourselves.  We are the fools.  We are the poor of mind.

A great book once said, "Walk with the wise and become wise, for a companion of fools suffers harm."  The people of Forest Creek don't stand a chance to succeed, because they are surrounded by people who have the same impoverished mindset that they have.  The best thing to do with impoverished people, is to surround them by the successful and wealthy.  Instead of pushing these suffering communities to the fringes, slums, and blights of our society, we should be pulling them close.  Our housing projects should not be far away from our wealthy communities; they should be right next to them.  

Will this be painful for our wealthy communities?  Of course.  But these people have been suffering for generations, and we can't afford to ignore them.  The only healthy way forward, is to shoulder some of this pain, and give these people wisdom and compassion in return.  

This can't be done rashly, quickly, or all in one place; otherwise, our wealthy communities will be damaged by an overwhelming influx of foolish behavior.  Instead, we should create small pockets, little communities of modest but nice housing, maybe 10-15 homes, perhaps with a central halfway living space that includes a guidance counselor or two.  We should place these structures in the middle of successful communities, so that these suffering people are surrounded by a better atmosphere, better influences, and better ideas for stable and successful living.  This way, impoverished children won't be leaving the positive atmospheres that their school creates, only to be plunged back into chaos on a daily basis.  Instead, they will be surrounded by a community that wants to see them do better, people who are strong enough to give them hope, instead of stealing their last shred of dignity.

If we want our poor to do better, to work harder, to be more honest, and to walk away from poverty; then we must begin with ourselves.  We must do better, we must work harder and be more honest with ourselves and each other, and we must walk away from our own impoverished mindsets, which would rather turn a blind eye to the poor amongst us, rather than offer a true helping hand.  Those who succeed in this life should become examples, mentors, and parental figures.  After all, isn't that the mark of true success?