I'm the poor listener.  I'll think about that one.  I didn't understand the rest of that comment.

Guys, my stomach has been in knots for days.  It looks like we're not going to resolve this.  I wasn't looking for an immediate resolution, I just wanted to talk.  But it appears that a resolution would be required in order for us to move forward with anything else, and yet it also seems impossible to make any meaningful headway in this firebox sprint.

John, what is left to say?  Our friendship is shattered.  I blame you entirely.  I know, I know, you see it differently.  You’re impetuous and hot-headed.  I've tried to lean on our friendship multiple times since this topic was opened, and you've let me down every time.  Your knee-jerk reactions, your rudeness and offensiveness after you finally decided not to run away, repeatedly calling me a liar, your carelessness with the trust that exists in any reliable friendship, the disgusting way you used a gross mistake that I made in my childhood as a metaphor to paint me into a corner, treating me like a sociopath who’s willing to try anything no matter how revolting, calling me a liar when I denied it.  I wondered why you started bringing up my past, but chose to trust you and just enjoy the wayback machine.  Facts, self-restraint, and patience would've served you far better, that is, if you were actually trying to win a friend over to your perspective, and not just stroking your ego.  I assumed you had better control over your emotions.  It’s clear that you have no intention of being more respectful, or God-forbid, apologizing.  In fact you are quite proud of yourself and are wholly convinced that you’ve had me pegged from the beginning.  I have no idea how you're justifying this behavior in your mind.  As you say, I clearly don’t understand the spiritual thing that you are.  I've never had to do anything like this in my adult life, but you've cussed, insulted, and demoralized me for the last time as my friend.

Nick, Tommy, I'm assuming you're all a package deal, and that you will all walk away as the same group that you were when you arrived in high school.  I understand.  My door is always open if you want to talk.  Take care of each other.

I'm going to archive this chat, so please call or text directly.