I was 17, and I was terrified.  I had no idea what that person would've done if I had resisted him, and I had no idea how to defend myself.  I can excuse the 17 year old version of you for believing that a sheltered child like me would find nothing revolting about that situation.  I told myself a lie in that moment, and the lie calmed me.  Later, I told you that lie.  I can excuse the present you for not having considered that possibility, especially since you've spent no more than maybe a month with me in our adult lives, spread across 30 years.

The idea was to have an adventure.  Before I got too far into it, I said a prayer to God, and I determined this would last a year, then I would move on with my life.  Toward the end of that adventure, I decided to go hitchhiking.  I knew it would be difficult, but I was ready for a test of courage.  I didn't know what it would actually be like, and I thought the don't-talk-to-strangers thing was for kids.  I learned a lot from that experience, including many lessons on how not to be a fool.

After that period of my life, I started making better choices.  Along the way, I made a few really wise ones.  I didn't end up where I am, personally and professionally, by being a fuck up.  I'm proud of who I am, and I feel quite good about my politics and religion.  Becoming a Republican isn't something I'm trying.  It's something I became, because I was persuaded by some wise voices in this country, as well as the absolute toilet hole that the democrat party has become.  Studying their history makes me sick to have ever claimed that label.  For a moment in time there, they did seem to be the ones with the best ideas.  But some of those ideas turned out to be misinformed crap at best.  I know what healthy liberalism looks like, and when it returns, I'll be a part of it.  Like I said, the spectrum shifted far more than I did.  I honestly didn't expect the three of you to be among the far left who can barely stand republicans.

Yesterday, I felt like you really lost your way, John.  You were trying to play some weird role in my comments.  I won't put a name on it, because you would likely deny whatever label I choose.  Apologizing to people for me, lol.  You reminded me of Dr. Rick from those Progressive commercials, where he tries to teach adults how not to become their parents.  You thought maybe your clear perspective on my comments might help me, I'm assuming.  It's not the first time you've proven that you also know nothing about my life or how I work and think on a daily basis.  I guess I appreciate your intention?  Please don't do that again though.

You three are going to have to come to terms with this, or end your friendship with me now.  We can still talk, but I would suggest we move on for now.  This isn't an intervention, and the conversation isn't going to be done in a few days.