I need you know that, while I believe that I bear my fair share of responsibility in the damage that our relationship has gone through over the years, I also believe that you do as well.  One of the main causes is the lack of faith in me that I feel from you.  I can count two times in our adult relationship when you have believed me to be a liar when testifying to my own inner thoughts and feelings.  

The first time was when I was drawing your caricature many years ago, I presented you with the first draft, and you pointed out several problems with it (no glasses, etc).  I thought the feedback was great, and I responded, over toneless text, with "Let's make Mommy happy".  This infuriated you.  I can only imagine that perhaps your mind harkened back to the movie "Mommy Dearest" or something, but I wasn't implying anything of the sort.  I was recalling the days when I called you "Mommy", and I loved with a heart that was so young and pure.  The level of effort that I had to go through to convince you that I had no hurtful intent was insulting.  But I couldn't tell you that, because it would only create more hurt feelings.  To this day, I have a feeling that you still may not believe me. 

The second time happened when I was trying to tell you something over FaceTime.  It was something that was very important and private.  It was about how I felt about you, and what you meant to me.  I can't remember what it was, only the feelings that I was going through as I tried to begin talking through.  But instead of listening to me, you kept talking over me, trying to guess what I was about to say, and adding your own two cents.  I couldn't figure out how to get you to understand that I needed this moment.  I felt that, even if I started trying to explain that, you would just continue trying to fill in my blanks.  So in the moment, I tried to think of something funny I could do.  I made the same mistake that my son often makes, in that he believe there is humor in pretending that he is a disrespectful little cuss, especially since I know he's not.  So I barked out, a bit like a dog, and said "be QUIET!".  You stopped for a moment.  I literally beared my teeth at you and growled a bit.  Then I chuckled, and tried to continue.  You interrupted again, saying, "Joey, I'm sorry, but I have to hang up now".  Then you didn't speak to me for a day.  I tried to explain to you my good intent, that I was joking, though poorly.  You wouldn't accept this.  You insisted that I was angry, and implied, once again, that I was lying to you about my own inner thoughts and feelings.

I thought I had third example.  But after thinking hard, I realized that the feeling of a third memory, actually came from an amalgamation of experience I had with you as a kid, in which you simply would not believe me.

I understand that kids lie.  But you should still always begin from a place of faith with them.  But I'm not a kid anymore, and I shouldn't have to beg you to believe me.  You're continuing insistence, and clear belief, that I am a lair, was done an incredible amount of damage to my faith in our ability to communicate with one another.