I am a deep giver.  My father, who did not share my blood, taught me that when he was my pastor, and I gave deeply to him.  My mother, who shared my blood, and didn’t know my father and had barely even met him, was angered by this.  She saw my father as a cult leader, a man who had gotten his claws deep into me, who was manipulating and using me.  All I know is, my father was unlike any pastor I had ever met, and I witnessed amazing social and cultural transformations when I served as his apprentice.  There were no miracles in the traditional sense, but in a modern, more enlightened sense, there were many.  We setup a school in a small town and taught children, not what to think, but how to think, in a classical sense.  We advocated religion, not because we thought it was best, but because we couldn’t exist in the town, nor work with the children, without doing so.  So my father fostered a love for Jesus in the hearts of the children, and painted a picture of a Christ who understood a more enlightened love, one without prejudice or anger, and told the children to follow the example he had set.

During this time, I didn’t make a penny.  I worked as my father’s apprentice, and watched him work far harder than I did, far harder than anyone, to build a shared dream around our community.  I watched him suffer and go without, so that buildings could be designed and built for community and educational activities.  I watched him live in poverty so that computers and video equipment could me bought and used to expose our children to the possibilities of technology.  And then he handed all of that equipment over to me, and I used it to earn income for our group endeavors, usher our small group into the internet age (then in its infancy), film and produce local commercials and documentaries.  Through my own determination, and the inspiration that came with a forward thinking message, I participated in creating perhaps the most incredible education environment I had ever seen.

Should I be angry that my pastor, who helped me to outgrow his own teachings and rise above Christianity, who has now turned to me and asked, what should our community look like for the next generation?

