When I was a child, my teacher told my mother that I may be a gifted student.  She wanted to enroll me in a special program.  My mom thought that she meant that I was retarded.  It took a second teacher to speak with her a year later, before she understood that what they meant was that I was an advanced student.  So in the third grade I was finally enrolled in a class that stretched my logical and creative thinking skills.  The program was called PEAK, and while not everyone in the class could be called a genius, it was designed to identify the most brilliant students in the upcoming generation.  This lead to summer camps and college courses in the summer.  Those programs, and the many freedoms that I was given throughout my high school years (with computers in a time when computers were new, in art classes, in exemptions from classes like English, where I clearly excelled but was not my central focus, a world where I designed my own curriculum), transformed my thinking, and how I interacted with the world, for the rest of my life.

We always laughed about this misunderstanding in my youth.  As a middle-aged adult I once implied, in a half-joking manner, that I was a genius.  For the record though, I do think that, in some ways, I am a genius, in at least the broadest sense of the term.  My mother replied, in no uncertain terms, that I was not a genius.  This all happened over text.

I dropped out of high school in my junior year.  It’s possible that my mother takes these societal measurements quite seriously, and viewed me as a dropout failure for quite sometime.  I didn’t reply to her assessment of me.  Sometime later (days or months, I can’t remember), she gave me one of the greatest compliments of my life, which I recorded in my notes, and which I will always cherish.  And while she didn’t apologize for her slight, she did her very best to acknowledge my brilliance.  I think she had a hard time understanding who I was when I was younger, I think she had some bitter memories from dealing with my teenage angst, and at the end of the day, I think she just didn’t want me to be smarter than her.  It makes me wonder if she’s ever grasped her own genius.