The only thing that I ever knew of Shawn’s mother, was when he sat on my back porch with me, and talked about the abuse she inflicted on him and his sister as a child.  He told me about how he had cut ties with her.  I’m sure if you had asked him prior to his unlawful actions in our studio, he would have attributed many of his mental struggles on his upbringing under her care.  Now he is a convicted felon, and this person that I only ever heard about in his stories, is now attacking us.  A stranger, trying to hurt us in some way.

Ms. GoodFleisch is, in my view, and in my dad's view, wasting he government’s time.  My dad has never met Ms. Goodfleisch.  I do not know Ms. Goodfleisch.  We have no reason to harass her.  We allowed her son to live in our studio for a period of time, and he betrayed our trust by committing criminal activity under our noses.  He has now been convicted of those crimes.  The only involvement we have ever had in this matter was the generosity we extended to Shawn by giving him a place to live, and our testimony in court concerning the crimes of which he was accused.  All we have ever wanted since Shawn left our studio, is for this whole matter to be behind us.  We have no interest, nor anything to gain, by contacting Ms. Goodfleisch.  None of us have contacted any of Shawn’s family after he left our studio.

Instead of protecting Ms. Goodfleisch from us, which would be completely unnecessary, since we have not ever met her nor contacted her, we would ask that you provide us with a way of protecting ourselves from her and the anxiety which she is, frankly, quite good at causing for us.   She is stranger to us.  She has never met us, she doesn’t know us.  In spite of this, she has sent unsettling messages to us over Facebook, and is now summoning us to court for reasons which she has fabricated.  We would like to ask the court to order Ms. Goodfleisch to leave my dad alone, and to refrain from contacting anyone associated with our studio.  The messages she has sent us over Facebook have done nothing but cause us stress, and this court hearing has pushed that stress over the top.
