I unfollowed someone on Facebook, who I know personally, because he called out his boss in a public post.  I don’t see this person much, but if I did, I don’t think I would want to pursue a friendship with him.  Is this too harsh?  His boss was an ass hole, which I can completely identify with.  But I feel like I am morally opposed to being publicly rude like this, in a place where everyone in the world can see it, presumably permanently.  It is the worst kind of insult, reserved for murderers, rapists, and thieves.  

I have encountered many unbearable people in my lifetime.  I’ve even worked for some employers who fell on the light-grey side of thievery, paying me less than I’m worth and demanding more from me, denying me rest without compensation.  But the truth is that it’s easy to become entrapped in a system that is built and driven by desperation, and then to give in to that desperation.  I don’t want to have anything to do with these people ever again, and I will answer truthfully if a reference is requested, and I hope that my personal and overt estrangement from them serves as a lesson in what manner rudeness and selfishness won’t be tolerated by good people.  But good people also possess a broad sense of forgiveness, and a desire to see even the weakest and most selfish among us, find healing and grow in wisdom.  

Contrasted against this, the idea of wishing that everyone in the world knew that a particular person had behaved selfishly, and that they knew that for all of time, feels unacceptably cold.  And so perhaps this answers my own question, because in a cold world, if I don’t surround myself with warm people, I’m going to freeze to death.