I’m sorry that I’m so slow to catch on sometimes.  I remember that meeting, where you were looking for sketch idea, and we had never really filmed a sketch.  I came up with godfather as god, and I saw the smirk on your face.  I look back on that smirk, and I imagine that you were thinking something like “this is going to work”.  Then I remember you calling me while I was driving to the grocery store, and compelling me to come up to the studio.  I didn’t want to do it, or at least that was the loudest voice in my head.  Deep down I still can’t say for certain that I wanted to do it, but I did want it to be done, by me, I just wanted it to already be finished.  I didn’t want to go through all of the emotional gymnastics that it takes to get through an acting session, the embarrassments, the mess-ups, thinking up the monologue, retaining it in my brain as we filmed.  I remember how much I resisted when it was done, telling you over and over that I didn’t like doing it.  And this is true, I usually don’t, or at least I don’t like getting started; I often enjoy myself once I get going.  But I never explained that to you.  TBOG was such a lazy show, lacking any commitment or dedication.  I was rarely proud of it.  And then I eventually took a back seat.

All the years you have wasted fighting my inner demons.  I know you think it was worth it, and of course I do too.  But here we are, with you in your 60’s, and how much further along would you be toward fulfilling your dreams, and me mine, if it just hadn’t taken years for me to see clearly.

I suppose its only fair to point out that back then I still felt very restricted by religion, and by the perceived expectations of those around me.  Even when we completely walked away, I was afraid of crossing certain lines.  I’m still afraid, but now I’m angry at my fear, I’m angry at my perceived expectations of those around me, I’m angry that I allowed the 16-year-old me, who was so full of life and ambition, to be slowly stifled and controlled by the adults around me.  I don’t think that people usually mean to control you; they just assume you’re not doing anything until you tell them otherwise.

I’ve got to start telling people otherwise.

Thank you for being among the least pushy people in my life.
