Sleep deprivation is no good for learning in most classroom environments. These environments require a high level of will power, to remain focused on the process of receiving information through a contrived vocal process of communication, and then to commit the result of that communication, usually through forced and unpleasant repitition, to a level lower in the mind than vocal communication, that of imagery, object relationship, pictographs, and likely many forms of information storage that we don't understand yet.

On the other hand, sleep deprivation is often stimulating to the creative process, because our mind becomes slowly reduced in it's capacity to focus on the functions of vocal communication, and begins to lean more on preexisting functions, such as tactile response, visual symmetry and asymmetry, the emotions released by music and rhythm, and other more instinctive activities. There is also a learning process that occurs, which is far less hindered by sleep deprivation, because it is usually far less contrived and synthetic, and far more experiential, transcendent, or perhaps subversive, than the high layer language of our current vocal methods. Creative and experiential learning exists on a much lower, perhaps even more primitive layer.  This process occurs in a region of our mind that is much closer to our original self, and the things we learn in that place become far more instinctive.  Creative exploration is perhaps the only way that an adult can escape the learning disabilities that come with the physical maturity of the human mind.  It is the adults who forget how to play, how to explore, how to seek happiness, that lose their ability and drive to learn new things deeply.
