What some of the bible says about the spiritual realm, makes more sense to me, if what it was actually talking about was the social and phsychological realms, especially when it comes to giving.  For example, if I give some of what I possess in the physical realm, to my friends, then they will have more physical things because I have less physical things.  I have lost in the physical realm.  But in the social and psychological realm, something has been gained that often feels like it is worth many times more than the physical things that were lost.

If you give your physical things loudly, you might gain political or social favor, you might find success in injecting obligation into your neighbors mind, which you could collect on later to gain physical returns, probably more than what you gave in the first place.  This is good, but not without it’s potential downfalls.  In this example, the currency begins in the physical, is converted to the social and psychological, and then it is converted back to the physical later.

But if you give quietly and simply, without the slightest implication of ulterior motives, if you forget that you gave it, if you never collect on a favor…if you never let your right hand know what your left hand is doing…you may never gain any returns in the physical realm.  In truth, you will likely gain much in the physical realm, but not as a direct effect, though likely not as much as in the prior example.  In this transaction, the giver is content to convert the physical to social and psychological currencies, and to leave the currency in that state indefinitely.

But this is where it might get really interesting, because I'm pretty sure that the currency multiplies when left in this state.  Now, like physical currency, the only trick is to find value in this invisible currency.  It's no less a real choice than our implicit choice to project value and trust in government paper.  This value is only abstractly comparable to the way we find value in physical currencies, because I don't think that greed is even possible when currency remains in this state.  Moreover, currency is untouchable by the government when left in this state.