Tonight I radiated in the comedy community like I was goddam Jesus Christ himself.  Nobody there thinks that I'm perfect, but for just a moment, I captured the fascination and respect of everyone around me, including some of the most hard shelled people in our little comedy community.  

The grace with which I refused to indulge in childish trash talk embarrassed one young guy, by doing nothing more than providing contrast.  The embarrassment wasn't diliberate, I simply made a choice to speak peace instead.  I wasn't above anyone, I just came with opinions included.  I wasn't condescending, I was simply witty and insightful.

My car pool passenger, a pushy opinionated guy (who I like), had been talking to me about something for a few minutes, but I was really struggling to understand, because he was being extremely polite.  I finally realized that he was just generally discussing the value of politics.  For a split second I began to fear that he was trying to expose some game that he thought I was playing in the community.  I quickly decided to politely stand up for myself, by owning any subtle implications he might be making.  So I simply started talking about the value of politics, and how the key to working well with others is to imagine that your life is a movie, and that you are the camera and the protagonist, as well as the writer for the protagonist.  A happy life comes from being a brilliant writer, who can craft a brilliant character that you can be proud of.  I think the best characters are the ones who figure out how to exist with the most possible people in peace.  My passenger told me that politics was the skill of being liked.  I agreed with him, and added that the great thing about the skill of being liked, is that if we all had this skill, then we would all like each other.

My passenger had earlier implied that he wasn't fond of another person who I liked.  After our conversation had gained some amazing momentum, I pointed out how this friend, despite his faults, had kindly provided the herb that was currently helping to stimulate our genius.

At some point he began to comment about his own inability to get along with some people.  So I started talking to him about parenting, and I explained that the frightening thing about parenting is that this animal instinct kicks in, this innate sense that you are completely in control of these humans, and so fuck what they want, we're gonna do things my way.  I say what goes, I have complete control over this environment.  It is this animal instinct, this desperate struggle for a zone of control and safety, from which discipline is born, the methods of force that we use to herd our children into submission to our will.  The real challenge, though, is to find a way to be their friend, and to realize that when I get angry at them, it's usually because I see something in them that I hate in myself, and that the only way to get past that anger, is to find a way to forgive myself and to accept myself, truly and sincerely, for who I am.  No excuses for wrong doing, but merely the love and unending patience that a great parent would give to a child that they know will one day do better, directed at ourself.  This is the only place where great friendships can exist, in a place of mutual admiration.  And so we find a way to embrace ourself, and so we find a way to embrace our children, and so we find a way to embrace others.  

I stunned him.

I was so impressed with how I've played this whole situation so far, that I began fearing that I would misstep, overstep, become arrogant or too bold.  It wouldn't be the first time, even recently.  Social skills might be the hardest bike I've ever tried to ride.

NCG has been extremely helpful; they gave me a ton of tools that I needed to manage a social atmosphere.  I found that in real application, I had many missing pieces, but in this regard, NCG also gave me a lot of valuable tools to think through the missing pieces, and connect the dots myself.  

However, I feel that it’s also worth noting that I have been a peace maker since my days with Barry Anderberg, Mike Matisse, and that crowd.  I was a beginner back then, and I pretty much failed every time.  But I tried more than once to keep peace among my friends, and I often wonder what made me that way.  I made some really poor choices in some early friendships, before those days, but I learned quickly from those choices, and figured out how to barely manage a few solid friendships in my late teens.  

Actually, the longer I talk about it, the more it sounds like I was socially crippled after all.  But I did refuse to hate Barry Anderberg when my other friends subtly insisted that he was unworthy of love.  I did this while also remaining friends with them, even if they were extremely frustrated with me.  At the time, I didn't think they liked me very much.  But looking back now, and reevaluating some of the things that happened, I now realize that, to the contrary, they deeply valued my opinion.  This has been an invaluable lesson that has given me strength of character in this comedy community today.

After a few minutes of queitly listening to music together, "One Day" by Matisyahu began to play.  I told my passenger that I really like this song.  Without missing a beat, he said, "you look like you like this song".

DK, my passenger, is a bit like Tony Viguela all over again.

Addendum:

It wasn't Jesus who I radiated, though the analogy is interesting, and perhaps true indirectly.  But upon further inspection, it was actually the deep wisdom of my dad, combined with the eternal patience of my big brother Ricky, topped with a dash of my own fire.