The day after I was bitten, I spent a lot of time thinking about what had happened.  I honestly didn't know how to feel.  I love Duncan.  I've loved everything about him up to this point.  So gentle.  So handsome.  So playful and full of love.  My initial reaction the night prior, was to blame myself.  I told myself that I understood him better now, and all I needed to do was listen more carefully to his growls and body language.  Part of me assumed we could just move on.

The next day, I found myself distraught and depressed, unable to put my feelings into words.  I didn't know how to behave myself around Duncan.  It was clear I needed some advice.  I sought the council of people whom I respected, who were wise, or had experience with dogs.  This included the three of you.  I did my best to relay events and conversations across parties.  I laid out for Barb what had transpired in detail, and framed it as though I may be to blame, because at the time I certainly wondered if I was.  When she told me I should put Duncan down, I ended the conversation with her abruptly and thanked her as I quickly walked away, because I was about to cry.  It wasn't what I wanted to hear.  This is likely why she rang our bell later and offered some alternative ideas.

Regardless of whether I want Duncan to be euthanized or not, it is my right, as the victim, to ask that he not live here any longer, even if that means that he will be euthanized.  This is, at minimum, how I would have treated you.  Your feelings are relevant, and simply expressing them honestly and respectfully, with regard to my position, is the most effective way for me to hear them.  But since you were not the one attacked, the final decision is not yours to make, it's mine.  And victim-blaming, threatening to be "done" and "not forgive" in order to take that choice from the one attacked, is really terrible.  Even if your choice is the right one, it makes it very difficult to see that, because your manipulative intentions are standing in the way.  When you threaten the complete annihilation of our relationship, it demonstrates that you are willing to use my love for you against me, in order to achieve your own goals, rather than participate in an objective process that stands a much better chance of leading us all to the truth.  For the record, in our 25 year relationship, your Mom and I have never done this to one another.

Before we spoke on Wednesday night, I had decided that we would likely take Barb's final advice, and simply curtail Duncan's tendencies to assert dominance in this house.  It was, in fact, what I wanted to hear, maybe what I needed to hear.  I'm still not convinced that Duncan won’t hurt someone in the future, but we are all adults, and we can put Duncan in his crate when children or strange animals are around, just like we did Hammy.

As for me ever treating a single dog as being disposable, I would ask, please, for a single prior example, and I will be following up on this if none are provided, because I really need to know if I'm lying to myself.

Even though I don't want Duncan to be euthanized, it's still important to feel the support of my family when I have to make a very difficult decision like this, when any choice I make is completely reasonable considering the circumstances, and when no choice is remotely easy.  It is important to me, to know that my family will stand by me, and treat me with the respect, even if I don't want to live with my attacker.  It is, in fact, the only reason I have left to talk this through so completely.  And should I choose to allow Duncan to live here, or to live at all, I would've very much liked everyone to see that I can reach that choice without being threatened, which I didn’t deserved, anymore than I deserved to be bitten in the face.  If anything in my history has indicated that I do deserve such treatment, please make me aware of it, so that such a response makes more sense to me, and so that I can feel better about how I was treated after the dog tore my lip in half, and again, so that I'm not lying to myself.  I will also be following up on this.  I do, in fact, believe that I have earned, and deserve, a great deal of trust from this family.

In case it isn't obvious, this is the worst dog bite I have ever experienced, by far.  I also pulled my head back when it happened.  I wonder what would've happened if I hadn't?  What happens if he gets out?  Who will be responsible if he injures a stranger, and who will bear the guilt if he injures a child?  Objective questions like these are the reason why I didn't instantly decide to keep him.

Had everyone in this family decided that what occurred was symbolic of a present danger that we all faced, and that no one was comfortable living with Duncan anymore, I likely would've at least tried to find a sanctuary where he could spend the rest of his years.

As it is, I don't know how I will feel about Duncan in the future, but right now, I don't like him very much.  But I can see beyond my own hurt, and it's clear to me that everyone still loves him.  I don't want him to be euthanized.  The only thing I know for sure, is that we will have to take this a day at a time.