My part was that annoyed him, and misinterpreted his growls.  And no, it's not my fault that Duncan chose violence to solve his small problem.  If I had known his growls could lead quickly to violence, I wouldn't have adopted him.  And neither would you.  So I'm glad I know it now, and I'm glad that the cost was minimal this time, because that means that we have an opportunity to make sure it doesn't happen again, perhaps to a small child next time.

I never said that I wanted to euthanize Duncan.  What I've said, and what I've been very clear about, is that I want you to see things from my perspective, and understand what I'm sacrificing if I allow a dog who attacked me to continue to live here.  There is a reason why there is no place that would take Duncan without euthanizing him.  

But clearly you believe that I'm at fault enough to justify the bloodshed that Duncan has brought into this house.  You talk about taking a second and third perspective with a tequila shot.  It sounds like you have little to no respect for Barb's or Grandpa's experience.  I wonder, have you even sought a second or third perspective yourself?  Were any of those opinions animal experts?  Any people who work at shelters or rescues?  Have you asked any of them what their recommendation is concerning a dog that is easily provoked to violence?  Have you told them what I did, in whatever words you would like to use, however you would like to describe it, and listened to their perspective on whose fault it was, or if it even matters?  If you haven't, is that maybe a bit insincere?  Is your opinion emotional, or well-grounded in reality?

How about you pay for Duncan's insurance, vet bills, and food going forward?  We can transfer him to you at the vet and make it official.

If you ever decide to actually get objective about this issue, and actually ask some experts, some truly compassionate rescue owners, so that you can offer an informed opinion, be sure to mention to that Duncan has lived with us for almost a year when it happened, and that this behavior only takes place in your room.

By the way:  What you have effectively told me is that if I choose not to live with my attacker, you will never forgive me, that you will be forever done with me, and that you will never be fine with me again.  That the only way I can keep the love of my daughter, is to keep my attacker.  That you and my attacker are a package deal.