A lot has happened as I’ve worked through the creation of episode 2.  My children have become adults and begun pursuing the careers and lives they’ve imagined.  My wife retired from Girl Scouts after our daughter completed her final year, and now finds herself in high demand by the local schools and teachers who love her.  I’ve experienced success, failure, heartbreak, betrayal, hope, humility, conviction…sometimes all in the same day.

What would life be without challenges to overcome, battles to win, visions to make reality?  What would we do without the struggle?  Will the robots really save us from all this work that gives our lives meaning?

I’m caught between two views of AI.  As a technologist, I’m fascinated by it, I find it infinitely useful, and I’m excited to see what the world to come looks like.  As an artist, however, I’m wary of it.  They say that imitation is the highest form of flattery, and yet identity theft is a form of imitation, as is mockery.  And who wants to be flattered anyway?  It’s one thing for the robots to do the jobs that can be learned quickly and easily, but now they’re beginning to do the jobs for which the legendary ten thousand hours are required for mastery.  Who then will master these skills, if society is just going to replace them at their peak?  I’m confident that human creativity and excellence will survive the onslaught of technology, but at what cost?

Then again, we all want our holodecks, and how will we ever get them without letting AI run rampant across the entire spectrum of human creativity?  Isn’t that dream worth the sacrifice of a few thousand artists?

These questions change nothing.  AI isn’t politely knocking on your door, asking to come in.  AI is a tsunami, and we are all caught in the flood.  Humanity has finally organized the internet’s knowledge into a functional mind, built from the work of people who spent decades learning what they know.  Now our children have instant access to that collective ability, delivered by a thinking intelligence that can work faster and do a better job than any of us can.  This strengthens the species, but weakens the individual.  If the next generation of AI is based on the evolution of the human mind under these conditions, that might start to look more like a reflection of AI itself.  AI imitating humans imitating AI.

Since AI can learn from its own mistakes, that means that it can evolve on its own, even as it designs and proposes ways for us to integrate our own minds into a next-generation information and productivity framework.

Some argue this means that we will all be able to get far more work done in far less time.  Some cry doom, arguing that it marks the end of humanity.  But this is not simply an ending; it is also the beginning of who we will become, when the tsunami is over, and it’s time to rebuild.

In the mean time, I for one still prefer a hands-on approach.  Sometimes slow and imperfect is better.  AI may provide speed, convenience, and automation, but it doesn’t provide meaning.  Meaning comes from struggle, failure, patience, friction, conflict, experience.  The making of episode 2, and its story, is all of this.  I hope you enjoy it.