Bog the Devourer

I once witnessed a lion fall in love with a baby orphan chimpanzee, and raise it as her own.  She had just finished pulling all the meat off his mother’s carcass, when she spotted the tiny little guy trying to walk, just a few feet away.  Her heart melted, and she decided to be that baby chimp’s new mommy.  I think that baby chimpanzee is gonna love his new lion mommy, and he's gonna do wonderful, incredible things with his new lion mommy.  Like, I'll bet he learns to hunt and kill other chimpanzees.  And then, when he's smart and strong enough, he will take revenge on behalf of his long fallen mother, break his new mommy's neck,  flea his long term captor, and then rejoin his troop as bog the devourer, new and uncontested general of the southern chimpanzee troops.  And blood and death, and great lamentation, will be left in his wake, wherever he goes.  That lion had no idea what she started when she ate that dude's mommy.  You don’t just eat a dude’s mommy, you know?  Bog is gonna be the end for all of us guys.

The last time I told that joke, someone mistook my punchline to be a double entendre.  I can't say I blame them, but no, I'm just sayin', if some dumb bitch killed my mommy, and then caught me, and insisted that I hang on her tits for the next six months, and then made me learn how to do all the shit she liked to do instead of the shit that me and my mommy liked to do, I would bide my time, then slit that bitch's neck.  And I bet I'd get some pretty dark fucking super powers out of that situation too, you know?