1. At the bottom of each school page, we have a small, relatively discreet link, which says, "School administration team: Click here to claim your school."
2. The user is taken to a brief form, which requests the following information:
		1. First name: Alphanumeric string, open field
		2. Last name: Alphanumeric string, open field
		3. Role: Dropdown, with limited choices:
				1. Principal / Administrator
				2. Vice Principal / Administrator
				3. Authorized Teacher
				5. Other
		4. Specify Role, if Other: Alphanumeric string, open field
		5. Email address: Valid email address
		6. Phone number: Valid phone number
		7. Driver's License or valid government ID: Image file
		8. School ID: Image file
		9. Password: Alphanumeric string, password field
		10. Confirm Password: Alphanumeric string, password field
3. At the top of the form, the user is informed that their information will be sent to the email address that we have on file for the school, and that there will be a waiting period to give the school time to review their application.  The user is also shown this message in a modal before they confirm their submission.
4. When the user confirms submission, their information is sent to the school, and a copy is sent to the user (and perhaps to our team).  Their information will be saved to our database as a user account, but marked inactive.  The school is provided a button in their email, which will take them to a web page where they can see the same information, and confirm or reject it.
5. If the school confirms the application, the user will be notified via the email address that they provided.  The message will include a button.  Clicking the button will take them to a confirmation page, which will activate their user account.  
6. If the school does not respond at all within the designated time period, the account is approved by default, since there will be a human review later, mentioned below.
7. If the school rejects the application, the user account will remain in our system, and marked as rejected, so that the user cannot apply again with the same email address.
8. Approved user accounts will be marked as active.  However, the user cannot yet do anything without review and approval by our QA team.  The account has a role similar to "QA team member", except they can only edit this school.  As will all QA team members, all changes must be approved.
9. The first time the user attempts to modify their school data, their changes are saved into a review queue, just like it would for a standard QA team member.  A manager must review these changes, along with the user's application information, including the ID images they uploaded, which will all be on the screen, along side the changes to the school data.
10. If everything looks reasonable, the manager can approve the changes.  By doing so, they also approve the user to be fully in charge of their school's data moving forward.  Further reviews will not be required, and all further changes will be saved to the live data, without review.