Hey Sis, hope you and yours are doing well.  Congratulations on the new comer, by the way!  Very happy for all of you.  

Do you still do accounting services?  Have you ever done federal taxes for someone out of state?  We lost our accountant a year or so ago, just as he was getting us caught up.  He lost a critical assistant, and couldn't support his customer base anymore.  We tried a new accountant, but the forms she's having us fill out feel almost as stressful as taxes.  Do you have bandwidth for my taxes?  I would insist on paying your standard fee for whatever it is I need, and what I'm hoping for is for someone to simply take all of my bank and stock statements, and just complete my tax forms.  I can certainly help to categorize bank transactions.  For our original account, that's basically all he needed.  We had 1-2 meetings, 15-30 minutes each.  I pulled together the documents he requested, indicated what transactions were charitable, medical, etc., and I think that was about it.  As you might imagine, I’ve always remained, up to this point, a small business with relatively few transactions. He charged us $500 for that, and I have no idea if that was realistic, or if he should've charged more, but I'm happy to follow your lead on that.  I’m far more interested in a sustainable working dynamic, than I am in any sort of discount, so please be frank about what you need to charge.  And if you're schedule is too full, and you can’t take this on, I completely understand.  That's how my own schedule usually remains.