The job description seems accurate.  A couple of minor issues:

- I don’t think anyone on this team has actually called me a senior software engineer in an official capacity.  I have experience in most/all of what’s on that sheet, and I have thought of myself as a senior engineer long before I was hired by Lincoln.  However, I was hired as a standard software engineer, and I have tried to exist within the bounds of that role as much as possible, so as not to overstep/overreach, or step on anyone's toes.  I have a lot to learn anyway, so I don't mind.  I have been asked to perform some tasks that fall within the bounds of a senior engineer, but the lack of an official designation has definitely held me back from fully embodying that role, for reasons just stated.  In the quiz I just filled out, I entered "Software Engineer" before I read this description.  I don't like to make assumptions, especially about stuff like this, even if it seems to have been spelled out for me to some extent.  You and I spoke around the topic of building and leading, so I assumed that's what I would transition into soonish.  I'm going to accept this as a final and clear indicator that I need step more fully into this role.
- My coding schedule is filled to the brim.  This actually prevents me from fulfilling some of what is described in that document for a senior software engineer.  This makes sense for our team size, but as we grow, my coding schedule will need to adjust a bit, in order to accommodate more time for bigger picture and leadership responsiblities.