Of course, he is going too far.  Just because republicans are not fascists, doesn’t mean that there aren’t people with fascist tendencies among us.  The same is true of the democrats.  But we must ask ourselves where the most and the loudest voices of fascism and violent rhetoric are coming from.

I do believe that there are some dark forces behind the democrats, who drove them all to start calling Trump a nazi and a Russian colluder, just to keep him from winning an election.  Since then, it has only gotten worse.  Anyone who spoke up against the left, Charlie, others like him, anyone who wore a red hat, then all republicans, then anyone who voted for Trump, then anyone who might dare say that he’s not all bad, then anyone who says that the democrat party might be going too far.  At what point does this become pure bigotry?

It’s not republican or democrat, it’s the uneducated and narrow-minded people on both sides, who are creating this growing chasm between us.  But smart and devious people on the left really amped this up when Trump switched parties.  How quickly did those idiots on The View go from loving and praising Trump, to hating him and convincing all their viewers that he was pure evil?  

The democrats imported well over ten million illegal immigrants, none of whom were vetted, and most of whom know nothing about the American way of life, free speech, government by the people.  And that is best case.  The democrats are the party who like to keep people on welfare rather than pushing them to reach higher and think for themselves.  How can our country sustain this way of governing?  Conservative thought is more difficult to understand.  Why would poor people be better off, for example, if they couldn’t lean on welfare as much?  It’s not easy to make that case when democrat leadership are telling them that conservatives just don’t care about them.  Uneducated people are easier to drive emotionally, inflame, and provoke to violence. So it’s hard for me not blame one party over the other, since there are so many uneducated people that the democrats have convinced to follow them with overly simplified arguments, without helping them to rise above poverty of mind and body.  They want them to stay that way so they are easier to control, imo.

But the truth is, there are people with fascist tendencies on both sides.  Pam Bondi proved that recently.  Imo, the loudest and the most voices of fascism and violent rhetoric are on the left.  Maybe my hearing is messed up, but I don’t think so.  

In any case, I agree, the man you spoke to has a serious mental problem.