Tell your stories 

from your acid trips.  The spiraling trees, the fractals.  The trip when the landlord showed up and caught us rolling a joint.  The psychic journey, the waste transference.  The trip to Eugene OR.  The hippies you met on the way.  The weed farmers with the dome guest house.  The hippies with the dulcimer, and the strange silent girl. The vow of silence you took, and how John Forrest tricked you out of it.  Campbell's thefts, his deceit.  And ultimately, his generosity.  How much it amused you that he wanted your comics off the wall, how he tried to trick you with ecstasy, how you should've done it for him.  Josh Pitt, and the shared journeys we had.  How you were each other's imaginary friends.  How you knew deep down that you were pretending, and long has it been since you've had a friend you could pretend that deeply with?  The hitch hiking trip.  The sign of the cards.  The cheap tattoo.  The Mexicans who hydrated you.  The two creeps who took you to Wichita Falls.  Their strange warnings.  Your manipulative aunt who talked you into returning home.  Her bible verse letters.  Your moms ultimatum that sent you to Jasper.  Meeting the Furlows, and strange Thomas who asked me if I like balloons. Meeting Dr. jones. Pipe fitting.  Scott Damn King.  Quitting my job to do missionary work.  How good it feels to be that convinced that you're right.  And godammit you were right.  Not about the God stuff.  You thought that teaching kids for free would make you a good person, and goddammit it did.  The schools.  The videos.  James Byrd.  Gary Price.  Pensacola.  Destroying churches, and dads reputation as the detroyer of churches.  Walking away from Christianity.  The freedom that followed.  The remembrance of my childhood, and how I forgot it.  The estrangement from ncg.  The reunion.  The secular missionary work, and how we were doing it all along.
