When I was younger, I used to goof around a lot instead of work.  Browsing the web, online shopping, social media.  I couldn’t help it!  Work stressed me out, and I needed to get away from it often.  But still felt bad.  I felt like I was stealing the time that my employers were paying for, and I knew that they would feel that way too.  This only added to the stress, which meant that now I needed to goof around even more!  My productivity suffered.

It’s been a while since that was a problem.  Don’t get me wrong, I still goof, I just don’t feel bad it anymore.  You see, several years ago, I began to accept that this was a problem I wasn’t going to overcome, and that the reality was that it wasn’t even really a problem.  The reality is, any work worth doing is going to have challenges, and it’s going to be stressful sometimes, and you’re going to need to step away sometimes, calm your spirit, and come back to the problem with fresh eyes.  As time went on, I reminded myself of this over and over again.  I gave myself permission to goof off, and I began to do so with diliberation.  Browsing the web, online shopping, social media...these things are not the best things, they were just the closest thing to my workstation.  Now I leave my workstation, I walk, I draw, I write.  I make plans and look for better ideas than the ones I have now.  Most of all, I seek to enjoy myself to the fullest, not excessively, but practically.  Now, even much of my goofing off is productive, it just feels more like play because it is productivity by my own means, and to my own ends.  And since I don’t stress over it anymore, I have less stress now, which means I need to goof off less.  And VOILA!  Increased productivity through the art of goofing off.