History repeats itself. Not literally and not exactly.  But people have behavioral patterns.  They repeat their own mistakes and decisions over and over, until they learn something new from them.  For those we are close to, it gives us an opportunity to hone our own reactions to certain types of behavior.  We know it will happen again, so we begin to prepare our responses each time.  In doing so, we learn to become better humans, in whatever that means to the individual.

Humans effect one another so predictably that the stories, sonnets, myths, and scriptures, written thousands of years ago, still ring the bells of truth to this very day.

And so, success in life comes when we learn the patterns of those around us, and sculpt responsive routines in our own life, routines that will produce an advantage with each and every loop that we repeat.  This is why we wake up early, because the world wakes up early, and so the earlier we wake, the more time we’ll have to interact with it before it goes to sleep.  We synchronize ourselves to the world, so that we learn from our mistakes faster, find our sustenance sooner, and have more time to enjoy our favorite things.  We are all searching for the day when we can do far less surviving, and far more thriving.  We first learn to provide for ourselves and our family, but we all hope for a day when we can do much more.  

Some have found a place where they worry for almost nothing.  Those who never learned the lessons of community or generosity, will do anything to keep their comfortable position, even if it means making it far harder for others to reach that place.  They horde and steal.  They use their 