When I gather weekly with my community, we talk about many subjects close to the hearts of our people.  Sometimes we talk about Family, sometimes we discuss Politics.  We may spend some time exploring Mythology, Logic, Linguistics, or Philosophy.  Sometimes I step up to the mic, and we discuss Art.  

Sometimes, we talk about the Bible, and we cherish the stories and the heroes, and we wrestle over their morals and meaning.  We don't require anyone to swear allegiance to anyone.  The truth is, heroism fosters the heart's allegiance on its own.

I love the Bible, but I am neither Christian nor Jew.  I grew up in the Christian faith, and I am grateful for the discipline that it brought to my mind.  I love and deeply respect devout people who are truly good.  I understand why you reach out to touch a perfect Creator, and I believe that you're heart is pure as you strive daily to embody all that is good.

I gather and grow with my community at NCG Studios, which has always been a home for a diverse group of people and opinions.  I'm grateful for our weekly gatherings in the name of faithfulness, togetherness, education, and hope for the future of all mankind.  I cherish our open discussions, and our efforts to conduct them with civility and honesty.  I respect the atmosphere of university, and I appreciate the sometimes uncomfortable topics, and the opportunity to openly discuss matters that so many of us would rather completely avoid.  For me, it has always been a safe haven from much of the world, which would rather shut you down, than to respect and love you enough to listen to an opinion that it might not agree with.  I am in awe of the patience that is fostered between the people I gather with, to bear with one another, even through offense.  NCG Studios sometimes begins with disagreeing, and then we learn to develop perhaps the greatest discipline of all: listening.