Nobody likes to admit that they are insecure, that they didn’t know something, or that they can’t do something.  It feels like a stigma, like it sets you apart from the group, labels you as inferior.  It’s challenging to move past these feelings and just be honest about who we are.  So we hide our insecurities underneath the masks that we have painted of ourselves since the day we were born.  You know what I’m talking about.  It’s the face, the mannerisms, the developed modes and responses that we have built for ourselves, the great wall of insecurity that we use to hide behind, so that we can comfort ourselves when we are feeling most vulnerable.  But hiding makes us terrified to take chances, to try new things, or step out in front of everyone, because if we fail, it might expose us as a fraud.  It’s a poisonous and pointless thought, and we never should’ve hidden in the first place.  Because the truth is, we are all insecure.  

The only thing that is holding us back is the feeling that if you expose your true self, no one will stand with you.  And the truth is, that can happen.  You’ve watched it happen to me many times on this stage, as I’ve bared myself before you.  In fact, you’ve been among those who refused to stand with me.  And that’s okay, because I know your struggle.  And I can bear this burden easily, because I know the secret, and I know it down to the center of my heart, down to the very marrow of my bones.  And this is the secret that moves me:  That we are all insecure.

Insecurity simply means that you’re unsure about something.  We usually use the term when we’re talking about people, the way they look, or the things they do.  But when we think about our own insecurities, the source always traces back to something outside of us.  Perhaps a moment when people were unkind.  Perhaps an accident in the water.  Or maybe just gravity, or a cockroach, or the sun exploding.  We are all insecure about many things.  You would have to be a completely detached person to feel sure about everything in this world.  If you never feel insecure, then you don’t understand this world at all.  The problem is not that we’re insecure.  The problem, the only thing holding us back, is that we’re afraid to admit it, that we choose instead to hide, to pretend.  And if you can’t admit it where you’re at, then you can’t overcome, you can never climb higher.

Overcoming insecurity can never be accomplished alone, because solitude is where insecurity flourishes, grows, and breeds.  Our friends, our community, they are the sunlight. We draw strength from them, as we watch them struggle with life along side us.  And it is in these community gatherings, these holy places, these safe places, where the honesty about ourselves must begin, where the trust in others must begin.  This is the place where we must give others permission and power to know us fully, as we begin to know them fully.  We must endeavor to confess our failings to one another, to share the notes of our life, to find new answers, and new questions, in the minds of our people, as we face our honest fears, own our honest follies, and claim our honest victories.