Recently, we released a video, in which I briefly suggested that I might have potentially found a positive slant on anger.  Do you remember that, avid viewers?  The truth is, I really don't know of a better word for the way that I feel.  Maybe it exists, but I don't know.  I am upset about some of the things I see going on in this beautiful chaos that we live in.  I'm very upset, but I'm not out of control, I'm not in a rage, I don't want to hurt anybody.  I'm not sure what to do about the things that bother me, but want to do something.  And that, I guess, is the difference I see, that instead of rage, if feel the energy to find a peaceful road forward, a way to express my feelings without hurting others.  But I'm still angry, I just don't hate anyone.  Why can't the two be separate?

I've experienced the negative forces of anger way too many times in this life.  After living your whole life, with even manageable anger, and then when you finally reach that first moment, when you strike an emotional balance with yourself, if only for a while, and you manage to ignore each and every opportunity to build up to an angry response, and when you feel the peace on the inside, that you're demonstrating on the outside. In a moment like that, the world looks so different than it does after your temper is flaring. It feels almost visual in that moment, like you're actually seeing things with different lighting perhaps.  

I was in this state of mind, when my son began to whine as soon as he messed up, dropped a dish, spilled a little bit of ice cream.  Some children tend to do this, they take their own failings way harder than they should.  You know what I'm talking about.

Okay, so here's the truth.  I was like that.  I took so many little things, way too hard.  I don't think some people knew how to talk to me, and so they just didn't.  I remember when I was pretty young, I was building with some legos with my cousin, and her mom came in, took a breath, and said, "oh my, what a mess you kids have made."  Within seconds I broke down crying.  My cousin, who knew her mom better than I did, and knew she was joking, was laughing.  And then they were both consoling me.

I don't know who taught me to react this way.  Maybe my mom.  Maybe my great grandma.  It's too late to play the blame game.  They were both just like me, just products of their own upbringing.  I'm grateful that they were both extremely sparing with the rod, in spite of the time and place where they lived.  They raised a son who could take a few more steps forward than they did in this life, and that, to me, is the highest achievement a parent can hope for.

But somewhere along the way, a social structure was erected in my brain, which dictated that kids had to listen to adults yelling at them all the time.  They had to believe, or at least conduct themselves, as if parents are always right.  They weren't allowed to walk away when they were overwhelmed with emotion, and they weren't allowed to ask questions or argue.  The rules were not always clear, but you couldn't question them, and you were expected to follow them flawlessly, under penalty of some kind.  If you asked questions, the adults usually assumed you were trying to be a smart ass.  But in return for your survival, you would one day be allowed to produce children of your own, whom you could also yell at and boss around all the time.

And so I saw that this outburst from my son was my fault, mine and Monica's, because my son was reacting to what he expected to happen, and that was for us to become angry. I followed him in the kitchen, put my arms around him, and quietly told him that no one was upset with him.  I asked if he knew why he reacted this way, and he said no, he didn't. So I told him the raw truth, as I've just explained it to you.  I told him that mommy and daddy, and even his sister, all have anger problems, and that none of this is his fault.  I told him not to forget what I had said, and that I was sorry. 