The DNA of Time

There must be other paths to growing, to never stopping, to learning forever, other than having children.  But it’s hard for me to imagine what that path looks like, I guess because I’m so close to this one.  You begin as a child, and you experience life, and you learn so many things.  But then you have children, and the same thing happens again, but now you’re watching it from the outside, and you’re watching you’re children go through parallel circumstances to yours, not identical, merely reminiscent.  You watch your children make different decisions.  You learn things you had never considered before, and they cause shocking tidal waves of new thought in your mind, as action leads to chain reaction.

One day, I might become a grandparent.  I might get to watch my children watch their children, and learn more from seeing the parental process from the outside.

When looked at this way, it almost makes sense why our lives eventually end, and why we should strive to live long and happy ones.  This is an experience worth taking our time for.  And when we fade away, our children get to step completely out of our shadow, and learn what it means to lead the charge.  The purpose of mortality has always been, and will always be to keep us together, to build family, to form an unbreakable chain across history.  We are the DNA of time, and in that small way the DNA of God itself.  The reason why we die, seemingly wasting all of that precious education and experience, is because something decided that immortality can only be achieved by drawing close to our loved ones, and teaching them everything that we hold dear, and then finally, handing them the torch that lights the way, to carry the most precious parts of us forward in the way that they see fit.
