There are some things in this world that will never change not matter what we believe.  Earth will always the here, gravity will always work, the principle of gravity will never change, the sun will always be warm.  And then there are some things that are heavily dependent on what we believe.  Children can rise or fall based solely on the ideas that the people who surround them fill their heads with.  And we are all children.  Do you believe that you can’t succeed?  Have you accepted defeat in this life?  You have become what is called a self-fulfilling prophecy.  We are what we believe.  When we don’t try, we deny ourselves the chance.  And when we fail, we deny ourselves a chance for redemption if we don’t try again.  That is why we say, if at first you don’t succeed, try, try again.  If you say, I don’t care anymore, if you mock others who try when you don’t, you have heeded the call of defeat, you have welcomed surrender into your life.  If you fall down, stand up.  You will fall down again, count on it.  So get ready to stand up again.  And when you do, believe that you will not fall this time, and fight with all that is in you to succeed.  Lift your friends up, and empower them with the voice of victory.  Or if you lack the strength or courage to do so, then at least silence your cynicism as they walk their own path, smile when they succeed, and learn from their determination.  Inspire and be inspired.  For us all to move forward, we must all first believe in ourselves, and in each other.  And we must never stop believing, and never give up, until what we believe about ourselves, is finally true.