Today I blocked Google and Bing from my household.  The bottom line is, neither one of them implement effective parental controls, and I don’t want any of that poison to have open pathways into my household.  

This is not a decision made for religious reasons, though religion certainly speaks volumes of truth on this subject in beautiful metaphor, a recommended reading.  Ultimately, I am concerned with the mental health of my household.  And pornography is insane.

I admit that this is my opinion.  There are many who find pornography a welcome part of their life, and that doesn’t necessarily make them a bad person.  When I was younger, I had a much different view on this topic, as did many of my peers.  The idea of free naughty pictures slowly loading on your computer, an hour at a time, over the phone, was a challenging notion to resist for many young teens of my generation.  Playboy was celebrated by the mainstream media of our country, and open womanizers were envied by most young boys and young men.  I’m grateful to have been raised by a hard working independent woman, who gave me the respect for women that our upcoming generations need to learn and spread throughout the world.  

But never did I imagine a day when the internet would exceed the speeds of even our highest definition video demands, and anything that you could spell would load on your screen in seconds, at no more cost than a standard internet bill.  Any screen.  On the wall, on your desk, in your pocket, on your wrist.  Even in your glasses.  However you want it, it’s up to you, it’s easy, and everyone can have it.  It allows children to explore the darkest parts of their psyche, without any guidance or supervision.  It opens pathways to darkness that would’ve never been injected into the minds of mainstream humanity in any other generation prior to this one.  This great age of connectivity has opened portals from our minds, into the deepest, darkest places of a minority of exploitative and disrespectful people in this world.  You don’t have to go down those paths, but the door is always open to you.  

This is the biggest, most invasive computer virus of them all, and some of our biggest tech companies are practically ignoring it.  Google and Bing, our most popular search engines, have done practically nothing to stop this from happening.  The parental filter can be turned off simply by logging out, or going into private mode.  Apple seems to have made slightly more effort with their device-level controls, but image searches get right past it.  I have searched for years for an effective solution to this madness, and now I’m done fighting.  I’m blocking both search engines from all devices in my household, as well as any other poorly protected search engine that crosses my radar, until they both learn to protect our citizenship more effectively.  Until then, I highly recommend duckduckgo.com, which seems to have a decent search engine, and works well with Apple’s parental controls to block all pornography from search results, including images.

#AAA