Adventures in Paddleboarding

When the guy said “It’s sold, sorry” over messenger, I couldn’t accept it on face value.  I had just spoken with this dude the night before and agreed on a price for his paddleboard.  It was now mid-morning, he had sent me his address a couple of hours prior, and told me that his wife would be there to show me the board.  Defuniak Springs is an hour and a half from where I live, and I was halfway through the journey.  Even more perplexing was the fact that he had marked the item sold, and I was set as the buyer.  After the initial shock, it began to seem worth asking if he had made a mistake, perhaps messaged the wrong person.  I’ve done it before.  It began to seem likely, so I kept driving, and asked him to confirm, explaining that I was quite a ways down the road already.  

5 minutes go by, and he still hasn’t seen any of my messages.  I begin to do the math, and as I see it, there’s only two possibilities.  The first is that he did in fact message the wrong person, and I’m still the buyer.  The second is that someone messaged him earlier this morning and outbid me, and this guy sold the board out from under me and let me waste my time without even an apology.  If it’s the first, then we’re good, it doesn’t matter, I’m still the buyer.  But if this guy is backing out of our deal, well, I’m now over halfway through my journey.  If he isn’t going to text me back, it’s now worth my time just to finish the trip, and ask for confirmation in person.  No aggression, just look me in the eye and explain the situation.  It’s your board, your business.  But, he’s also not gonna be there, his wife will, and there’s a possibility that he might have forgotten to tell her the new deal, and she might mistake me for the buyer that he switched to earlier this morning.  I might be able to pull a switcheroo on the switcherooers.

I was so excited to see how this turned out.

I had trouble finding their road, and so my anxiety grew by the second. Would the second buyer beat me to the sale?  At the very last turn, my map app completely mislead me.  There was no road where it said there was, it was nothing but dense forest.  If I had to rely on this guy for final directions to his house, I was screwed either way, because if nothing else, he wasn’t responding to his texts!  

So I took the only option that was left besides merely giving up, and I began to slowly prowl around this dirt road neighborhood, looking like a total creep in an area where everyone has a shotgun leaning just inside their door.  This paddleboard was gonna be amazing guys, by the way.  Worth much more than what they were asking.  So I prowled and I prowled, for maybe ten minutes.  I even parked at a house that definitely was not the right house, and knocked on their door, in hopes that they might know where the final road was.  But no one was home, or they were peeking out of a dark window, loading shells, I don’t know which.  Nobody knocks on these houses that aren’t actually from this neighborhood, guys, ever.  So anything’s possible at this point.  I am an anomaly here.  

Then, just as I was on my way out of the neighborhood, there it was.  The street I was looking for.  It was nowhere near the turn where my GPS had it, and it was a much longer road than the software claimed, so I still had my doubts that it was the right way.  I crept at almost walking speed, trying to spot every address number.  I got to the very end of the road, and the address number I was looking for, was nowhere to be found.  But guess what was to be found?  The paddle board.  There it was, like a beacon of hope, leaning on a white wood shed, exactly where it was in the Facebook app, and in slightly better shape than the poor photo had lead me to believe.  

So I park, get my best good vibes game face on, walk up to a burgundy front door, and knock twice.  I think I can hear a voice, but dogs are barking like crazy.  A minute or so passes, and I knock again.  I can hear a TV in the background, and the dogs are still losing their mind.  I wait another couple of minutes and let everything calm down.  And then I knock again.  The dogs are doubly riled, and I’m sure I can hear a faint voice this time.  After another minute or so, the door finally opens, but only slightly.  A lady is peering suspiciously through a six inch opening.  I say hello, tell her my name, and explain that I’m here to buy the paddleboard, I had spoken with her husband, and that he said she would be expecting me.  Her face relaxes, but some concern remains as she takes a deep breath.

“Oh, I told him to take that down.  I don’t want to sell the board.”

“Oh it’s your board?”, I clarified.

“Yeah, I have nerve damage in my wrist because of this tumor,” she pointed to a bump on her wrist.  “It makes it really hard to paddle.  I went out of the board yesterday, and I couldn’t paddle back.  I was stuck out there.”  She revealed to me later that the tumor wasn’t cancerous, but that it had grown back after a previous surgery.

So, what I expected was that there had either been a mistake, or that I was going to outfox a guy that didn’t know how to keep his word.  What I didn’t expect was a wife who loved paddleboarding, but tragically couldn’t paddle anymore, but still couldn’t let go of her beloved board.

“Yeah we were talking about it last night, and I didn’t know what I was gonna do with it.  He said, ‘we should sell it’, and then this morning he said ‘I sold that paddle board’.  I told him I didn’t want to sell the paddle board, and to take the ad down.”

So I’m torn.  I don’t know this guy, her husband.  Does he just want to have the extra money for him or the household, or is he genuinely trying to remove the temptation for his wife to allow her love of paddleboarding to put herself in a dangerous and damaging situation again?  I also got the sense that the biggest problem might have been that her husband priced the board way lower than what the board was worth.  But none of this is my fault, and I’ve come a long way to see this through.

So I decided that it was time to flex my conversational skills, to the max.  If she really doesn’t wanna sell the board, fine.  Her husband is an idiot, and that’s not her fault.  But if a higher bidder is what she wants, well I am currently holding some very powerful negotiating cards. So I smile and ask her if there is any way she might change her mind.  I explain how far I have driven, how vague and brief her husband had been, and how Facebook had marked me as the buyer when he closed the ad.

She listens as I speak.  She seems like a nice lady, and we are both smiling and relaxed now.  I tell her that I understood if she can’t part with the board.  I explain that I have $10 more than her asking price on me.  I tell her that if it’s really a matter of money, that I’ll go down the street and get their original asking price from an ATM, which is only $40 more than what I had.  It’s not the price that I hoped for, but after glancing at the board on the way in, it knew it was still a great deal.  

She thought to herself, one deep breath at a time.  She walked us out to the board as she told me how much she loved being out on the water.  I hurt for her, but she’s made it clear that she doesn’t need to be paddling anymore.  I finally decide that it’s time to pull out my ace card.  So I tell her who I am, and why I’m buying her board.  I tell her that I’m a youth pastor, and that a bunch of the kids at my church are all going crazy over paddleboarding.  I tell her that we only have a couple of boards, and that we need more.

I can hear melting, though she says nothing.  I pull the money out of my wallet.  She looks up at me, and asks if I can include the extra 10, which I happily do.

As I’m loading the board, she tells me that she used to work at a surf shop when she moved down here.  I can tell that she loves the water and the ocean.  As was speak she reveals to me that they had also bought this board used, and that they had paid significantly more.  I tell her that if she goes out on the water again, and decides to paddle, that she should either bring a friend, or make sure she has a board or kayak with a small motor as a backup.  I leave out the part where that would be so much easier to afford if her husband wasn’t such an idiot.  She remains truly friendly, and thanks me for the advice, which she definitely agrees with.  She says she’s happy that the board will be put to good use, but that her husband now owes her big time.

It is now evening, same day, and this guy still hasn’t even seen my messages.

Also, a dolphin swam right up beside me on my board the other day.  This board knew it belonged to me the moment I pulled into that fateful driveway.

Also, as I write, my right wrist is experiencing nerve fatigue.  I might be cursed now, guys.

