Set 2020-01-19

- * Beauty in the World
- Ricky
- * I’m Sorry
- Story Time
	- Listen for follow up questions
- Monica
	- Woodchuck commercial
- Mullins & Fam
	- squirrel moments
	- Jen ignoring messages 
- $5 time
	- Rule clarification, $1 per minute
	- Listen for follow up questions
- The Wages of Sin is Death
- 2-way mask
- Evening
- Picard party, 23rd
	- Dr. Jones plans?
- Star Trek 
	- Enterprise 1701, NCG 1701
	- Picard & Barkley, volunteer 
- * Fields of Gold
- * Bring Him Home 
- Dr. Jones
	- Cam demo during Dr. Jones’ lecture


Evening
- Hot sauce contest, cheap wings
- Dance Game?




/Picard & Mr. Barkley.txt




../../People/NCG/The Wages of Sin is Death.txt



Daily Fundamentals:

“After exploring the history of kindness, they, Taylor and Phillips, essentially offer their own definition of it, using Freud to root their argument. Their idea (via Freud) is essentially this: When we're children, we idealize concordance with the world. We don't yet have the frontal cortex to conceptualize the difference between a "me" and all of the physical stuff we hear, taste, and feel. We simply feel as if everything is one thing--existence without description. That's an initial vision of bliss.

But as we grow up, we begin to separate one thing from another, label it all, and come to identify with a sense of "me," in contrast to other people and events. This is how self-interest—aggression and defensiveness--develop. As we learn about the difference between ourselves and the world, we want to protect ourselves, to fight for our recognition or existence. Freud, the authors admit, comes to a standstill at this stage of maturity--saying that for most of our lives, we're aggressive in defending the self. We want to protect our bloodline; we largely want to protect or proclaim our stance in the world.

Taylor and Phillips essentially agree with Freud's picture of how greed emerges, but they add another stage to life (which Freud admitted but did not emphasize, and which Freud's sometimes-rival Alfred Adler ardently supported). They say that after individuation--and if we can think our way beyond an animalistic fear for our lives--we see that what humans call "meaning" only comes through collaboration. That is, without language and work among others, we have no meaning. But to honestly and openly acknowledge this fact, we need to make ourselves vulnerable again. We need to listen, to be patient--and, often, to be kind. Collaboration demands a giving and taking of gifts without guarantee of reward.

This is where real kindness sits, the authors say (modernity is perhaps just too much a rat-race for us to acknowledge this). Kindness is one of the highest modalities of human behavior, because it means moving from an infant's idealism, on to a young person's defensiveness, on to a wiser willingness for vulnerability. The wise-and-kind are the people who give in order to risk and thereby create.” (Simons)

In brief, what Simons research indicates is that kindness is a process of development, i.e., from the cradle to our sunset.  And that it only emerges through our habitual gatherings & commitments to one another. In other words, if an individual isn't kind, they have not experienced the processes of collaboration, i.e., in a group sense that finds the essential & deeper meaning of life itself.

Be kind, but realize how you get there,

michael w. jones






- ~~Rachael’s C in Geometry (ask permission)~~
