Set 2019-12-15

- * Chestnuts Roasting
- Ricky
- Best looking lesbian couple
	- Evolved couple
	- If evolution is real
	- Born into Christian, 3 yrs old, Baptist, once in
	- deciding eternal fate
- Story Time
- Jen & Fam, 5 min spot
- What are we doing here at NCG?
- Announcements, this evening
- * O Holy Night
- Dr. Jones
- There are good ships, and there are wood ships, ships that sail the sea. And the best ships are friendships, and may they always be.  ~ From The Black List


- The meek shall inherit the Earth.  The meek and the kind, and the humble.  The honest and the considerate.  The honorable, the empathetic.  The loving and compassionate.  It may take a few more millennia, maybe even more, who knows.  But that is where our species is headed, a kinder gentler species.  Earth is our teacher, our journey, our destination, and our inheritance.  We settle the Earth by settling ourselves.
- Jen’s family, melody and Landon
	- Go to catholic mass before coming here
	- Shows that they understand something very important about life:  Whether you agree with something or not, you still need to listen to a diversity of knowledge, and think about good questions to ask in life, to make sure know one can box you in because you’re uneducated or unprepared for the mental entrappings of this world
	- Always my favorite things about Dr. Jones:  He asks good questions
- About the 5 min spot
	- it’s importance, speaking about what’s important to you.  Find the thought room and riff.
- Jesus: ask and you shall receive
- What a privilege to experience this moment called life, to have this body with which I can travel and cultivate the world around me
	- From energy I came, to energy I’ll return
		- potential vs kinetic 
		- Some people don’t understand potential energy.  It’s doing nothing, so it has energy?  So I have the potential to make a lot of money?
- Money, imaginary, great system, the problem is that we have designed it upon the principle of taking, instead of giving
	- Started with gold
	- It should start with the idea that money is imaginary, and we can make as much or as little as it takes to design a balanced economic system where everyone has enough to meet all of their needs, both large and small 