Set 2020-01-05

- * Neighbor
- Ricky
- * True Colors
- * Won’t Last a Day
- Story Time
- $5 time
- Emotions *
- * Take These Wings
- Dr. Jones



- Conversation about Giving
	- Dad, Rick, Me, and anyone who wants to participate in a recorded conversation
	- 360 cam in the middle
- Being on camera capturing moments
	- how Marissa sort of objected then agreed
	- Then Mackenzie dances, everything changed
	- You have to set a good example
	- do you want to capture Draven doing all the cute things he will do throughout his life?
	- You have to set a good example


../../People/Me/We all have a consciousness.txt

Daily Fundamentals:

I so agree with Dr. Stosny: Emotions create importance. With an emotional response anything can be important; without it, nothing is. There can be no sense of meaning without emotion.

Emotions seize conscious attention by amplifying and magnifying change in the environment or within the self. The evolved purpose is to get us to act on the motivation of the emotion (approach, avoid, attack). For instance, if you're interested in something, and don’t focus on it, the usually unconscious emotion of interest starts to feel like anticipation, excitement, a nagging hunch, or anxiety. If you have ignored someone you love and don't approach to kiss and make up, the usually unconscious emotion of guilt will begin to feel like impatience, frustration, anxiety, or depression. If you’re in the Toddler brain, you’re likely to blame it on your partner. If you do, the unconscious guilt becomes anger or resentment, as in: "She had it coming!" or "Why should I feel sorry for him?"

Focus on feelings unavoidably distorts and blows out of proportion whatever change the feeling amplifies and magnifies. The distortion effect of emotions explains why the stronger ones, such as anger, make us do and say things we don’t believe. With an angry response, we’re usually wrong even if we’re right. We can start out factually right, until the distortion effect of the anger blows things out of proportion and context, making us wrong.

We Have a Negative Bias

The distorting effects of emotions worsen with their built-in negative bias. Negative emotions produce much greater effects than positive ones. There are several reasons for this. Negative emotions (particularly anger, fear, disgust, and distress) are more urgently related to survival. The brain is a better safe than sorry system. It would rather be wrong 999 times thinking your spouse is a saber tooth tiger than be wrong once thinking a saber tooth tiger is your spouse.

Loss is almost always more intense than equivalent gain. Having a meal is enjoyable but, in most cases, incomparable to the distress of having to skip one. Finding $1,000 will be pleasant for a day or so; losing $1,000 can ruin a week. More poignantly, having a child is a joyous occasion; losing a child takes a lifetime of recovery.

If we invest the time, effort and money in getting to know how we, humans, function, we survive and thrive. 

More on this tomorrow,

michael w. jones


