2019-11-24

- Melody & Landon, Lion King
- Dr. Jones’ birthday
- Gavin, Reflections finals
- Neighborhood Watch Tuesday
	- Here at NCG
	- Our vision
- * Blue Christmas
- * Down to the River to Pray, Voicelive, monkish, like in Blacklist
- If somebody could please convince me that the world won’t stop moving if I do, I promise that won’t work another day in my life.  But while I recognize that the world doesn’t revolve around me, it certainly does so because of me.
- The kids I walk by and say hello to
	- So wary of me
	- Do they think I’m racist
	- Do they think I’m a predator
	- Kids should never interact with strangers alone
	- Say hello, professional smile
	- Always be open and polite to friends, and to anyone that your parents are polite to
	- How can this world stay connected, if we disconnect from one another, even in just saying hello, or thank you, or I’m sorry, or have a good day
	- How will ever get job, or keep a job, if you can’t be open and kind to others?
	- I if you can be kind to an employer who gives you money, but not a stranger or acquaintance in passing, what does that say about your sincerity?
- Some people look at optimists, and they think to themselves, that person must really have a great life, and they’re really flaunting it, and they resent the optimist for the deliberately positive and motivated outlook on life that they have decided to have, against all odds, an attitude that they have trained themselves to maintain in the face of all adversity.
- There are good ships, and there are wood ships, ships that sail the sea. And the best ships are friendships, and may they always be.  ~ From The Black List
